Background	Pancreatic carcinoma is the fourth cause of death for cancer in the USA , carrying a dismal prognosis and poor overall survival .
Background	Unfortunately , resection for cure is feasible in a limited number of patients , thus confirming the need for an early diagnosis and accurate preoperative staging to select patients potentially resectable from those candidates to palliative treatment .
Background	Among imaging modalities , endoscopic procedures ( endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography , laparoscopy and endoscopic ultrasonography ) play a key role in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic tumors .
Background	Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography ( ERCP ) allows direct visualization of the main pancreatic duct and its side branches with their morphologic alterations , which are present in most cases of pancreatic cancer .
Background	The method is very sensitive in experienced hands , with diagnostic accuracy over 95 % .
Background	The most common finding in pancreatic cancer is the stricture of the pancreatic duct , the bile duct , or both .
Background	Moreover , ductal brush cytology and K-ras mutation analysis can be performed during ERCP , possibly improving the diagnostic accuracy of the technique .
Background	Diagnostic laparoscopy provides detection of small ( < 1 cm ) liver metastases and peritoneal implants of tumor which can not be visualized by any other imaging modality , with the possibility to biopsy under direct vision suspicious areas or to perform pe
Background	The adjunct of laparoscopic ultrasound improves the staging capabilities of the technique for pancreatic cancer ( retroperitoneal spread , vascular invasion ) .
Background	Endoscopic ultrasonography ( EUS ) is able to produce great detail of the pancreatic parenchyma and regional lymph nodes .
Background	It is especially sensitive in the detection of small pancreatic masses which can not be imaged with other modalities .
Background	EUS has the additional advantage of directing transduodenal fine-needle aspiration biopsies .
Background	Presently it is the most sensitive technique for the diagnosis and locoregional staging of pancreatic cancer , but limits have been identified in the lack of specificity ( differentiation between malignant tumor and focal pancreatitis ) and its operator-depe
Method	Reported is our experience with EUS in the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer .
Method	Over a seven-year period 43 patients with pancreatic tumors were staged with EUS preoperatively .
Method	Twenty-two patients were submitted to surgery at our Institution and EUS findings were compared with results of pathology or surgical exploration .
Result	EUS provided sensitivity of 100 % for the diagnosis of pancreatic cancer , while its accuracy for staging tumor infiltration , lymph node involvement and vascular invasion was 86.4 % , 69.2 % and 77.8 % , respectively .
Result	Despite improvements in the noninvasive imaging modalities , endoscopic techniques are likely to remain established methods for the diagnosis and staging of pancreatic cancer .
Result	EUS with fine-needle aspiration biopsy is probably the most promising , followed by laparoscopy ( and laparoscopic ultrasound ) which is essential to rule out small peritoneal implants and liver metastasis .

Background	The transient hyperemic response ( THR ) in the middle cerebral artery ( MCA ) after the release of brief compression of the ipsilateral common carotid artery has been used to study cerebral autoregulation .
Background	We conducted the present study to evaluate the reliability of THR to detect changes in cerebral autoregulation induced by graded variations in PETCO2 .
Method	Seven healthy adult volunteers were recruited .
Method	Fifteen THR tests were performed on every volunteer : three at baseline PETCO2 , three each at PETCO2 of 7.5 mm Hg and 15 mm Hg above the baseline , and then three each at PETCO2 of 7.5 mm Hg and 15 mm Hg below the baseline .
Result	Transient hyperemic response ratio ( THRR ) and strength of autoregulation ( SA ) were calculated using established formulae .
Result	Both THRR and SA were highly sensitive ( 96 % ) in detecting the changes in cerebral autoregulation induced by graded changes in PETCO2 .
Result	The within-individual variability of SA was significantly smaller than that of THRR at all levels of PETCO2 .
Result	This study demonstrates the reliability of the THR test , when used for repetitive measurements , in detecting changes in cerebral autoregulation induced by graded changes in PETCO2 .
Result	This test may provide a simple and noninvasive method of evaluating changes in cerebral autoregulation within an individual .

Background	To investigate the acute results ( parameters at implant and clinical parameters ) of permanent pacemaker implantation at our institution .
Method	Twenty five patients undergoing pacemaker implantation were included in this study .
Method	Subjects underwent medical history and functional class was assessed using New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) classification .
Method	All technical parameters ( pacing threshold , sensing , and pacing impedance ) and clinical parameters ( complication and procedure time ) were measured during and post implant .
Result	Majority ( 80 % ) of patients were in NYHA functional class II .
Result	The commonest indication for pacemaker implant was the complete heart block ( 56 % ) .
Result	The most frequent pacemaker type was single chamber ( 80 % ) with the commonest pacing mode of VVIR ( 72 % ) .
Result	Average optimal parameters achieved were pacing threshold of 0.5 volt , sensing of 12.6 mV , and impedance of 829 Ohm .
Result	Average procedure time was 1.6 hour .
Result	Major complication ( pocket infection ) was noted in only one patient .
Result	It is confirmed from this study that permanent pacemaker implantation could be carried out safely and effectively with low complication rate in a general hospital .
Result	Optimal pacing parameters could be achieved in the acute phase .
Result	Most patients still could not afford appropriate pacing devices due to limited financial support .
Result	Government insurance coverage for the poor should be encouraged to cover more people .

Background	High intracranial pressure ( HICP ) may be a very early event after traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) , but in most cases , especially when contusions and edema develop over time , HICP will worsen over succeeding days .
Method	This study describes the incidence and severity of elevated intracranial pressure ( ICP ) after TBI and attempts to document its time course .
Method	In this prospective study , 201 TBI patients in whom ICP was monitored for more than 12 h were evaluated .
Method	ICP was measured , digitalized , and analyzed after manual filtering .
Method	The number of episodes of HICP and the mean ICP value for every 12-h interval were calculated .
Method	When monitoring was concluded , the highest mean ICP collected in every patient was identified .
Method	A total of 21,000 h of ICP monitoring were recorded .
Method	Active treatment to prevent or reduce HICP was used in 200 patients .
Method	HICP was documented in 155 cases .
Result	Half of the patients had their highest mean ICP during the first 3 days after injury , but many showed delayed ICP elevation , with 25 % showing highest mean ICP after day 5 .
Result	In these cases , HICP was significantly worse and required more intense therapies .

Background	The present investigation examines the phenomenology of episodic symptoms in dysfunctioning children and adolescents following mild ( n = 25 ) or severe ( n = 25 ) traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Method	TBI patients in both groups commonly endorsed symptoms such as staring spells , memory gaps , and temper outbursts .
Result	Anticonvulsant response in the 27 patients treated , reflected moderate to substantial improvement in 92 % .
Result	A dose-response relationship between injury severity and number of episodic symptoms was not observed ; however , patients in the severe TBI sample did produce significantly more defective performances on a dichotic word-listening task ( DWLT ) and lower IQ v
Result	Defective DWLT performance was also significantly associated with greater number of episodic symptoms endorsed , but only in the mild TBI sample .

Background	Percutaneous vertebroplasty has become a favored treatment option for reducing pain in osteoporotic patients with vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) .
Background	Short-term results are promising , although longer-term complications may arise from accelerated failure of the adjacent vertebral body .
Method	To provide a preliminary biomechanical assessment of prophylactic vertebral reinforcement adjacent to vertebroplasty using a three-vertebra cadaveric segment under dynamic loads that represent increasing activity demands .
Method	In addition , the effects of reducing the elastic modulus of the cement used in the intact vertebrae were also assessed .
Method	STUDY DESIGN/SETTING Three-vertebra cadaveric segments were used to evaluate vertebroplasty with adjacent vertebral reinforcement as an intervention for VCFs .
Method	Nine human three-vertebra segments ( T12-L2 ) were prepared and a compression fracture was generated in the superior vertebrae .
Method	Vertebroplasty was performed on the fractured T12 vertebra .
Method	Subsequently , the adjacent intact L1 vertebra was prophylactically augmented with cement of differing elastic moduli ( 100-12 .5 % modulus of the base cement value ) .
Method	After subfailure quasi-static compression tests before and after augmentation , these specimens were subjected to an incrementally increasing dynamic load profile in proportion to patient body weight ( BW ) to assess the fatigue properties of the construct .
Method	Quantitative computed tomography assessments were conducted at several stages in the experimental process to evaluate the vertebral condition and quantify the gross dimensions of the segment .
Result	No significant difference in construct stiffness was found pre - or postaugmentation ( t = 1.4 , p = .19 ) .
Result	Displacement plots recorded during dynamic loading showed little evidence of fracture under normal physiological loads or moderate activity ( 1-2 .5 x BW ) .
Result	A third of the specimens continued to endure increasing load demands and were confirmed to have no fracture after testing .
Result	In six specimens , however , greater loads induced 11 fractures : 7 in the augmented vertebra ( 2xT12 , 5xL5 ) and 4 in the adjacent L2 vertebra .
Result	A strong correlation was observed between the subsidence in the segmental unit and the incidence of fracture after testing ( r ( Spearman 's ) = -0.88 , p = .002 ) .
Result	Altering the modulus of cement in the intact vertebra had no effect on level of segmental compromise .
Result	These preliminary findings suggest that under normal physiological loads associated with moderate physical activity , prophylactic augmentation adjacent to vertebroplasty showed little evidence of inducing fractures , although loads representing more strenu
Result	Reducing the elastic modulus of the cement in the adjacent intact vertebrae appeared to have no significant effect on the incidence or location of the induced fracture or the overall height loss of the vertebral segment .

Background	The regional distribution of blood flow following intracranial haemorrhage at arterial pressure was measured with the 14C-iodoantipyrine autoradiographic technique in Sprague Dawley Rats .
Result	With uncontained haemorrhage , there was a bilateral reduction in cerebral blood flow , associated with a fall in cerebral perfusion pressure .
Result	With contained intracerebral haemorrhage there was a profound ipsilateral reduction in flow in the hemisphere adjacent to the haematoma .
Result	This study indicates that extensive cerebral ischaemia occurs immediately after an intracerebral haemorrhage , and that this may be the result of compression of the microcirculation .

Background	Quality of life ( QoL ) is an important outcome measure in clinical studies .
Background	However , there is little experience with the interpretation of QoL results .
Method	To guide interpretation of QoL results from a randomised controlled trial ( RCT ) targeting the effectiveness of the immune modulator G-CSF on postoperative recovery in high risk ( ASA III/IV ) colorectal cancer patients , we compared RCT data with data from a
Method	QoL was assessed using the European Organisation for the Research and Treatment of Cancer ( EORTC ) QLQ-C30 and CR38 questionnaires .
Method	QoL results were analysed on discharge from hospital and six months postoperatively .
Result	Colorectal cancer patients ( both from the RCT and the cohort study ) showed the greatest differences in QoL scores compared to norm reference data at discharge from hospital .
Result	Six months postoperatively , global quality of life and pain approximated norm reference values indicating optimal recovery .
Result	However , deficits still appeared in scores for role functioning , physical functioning , social functioning and fatigue .
Result	The best improvements ( discharge from hospital to six months postoperatively ) were seen with respect to physical functioning , fatigue and pain .
Result	For further analysis of RCT data , physical functioning and fatigue scores may be more sensitive than global quality of life to detect differences in treatment effects .

Background	The prevalence of nonadherence with mood stabilizers ranges from about 18 % to 52 % .
Background	Only 1 % of publications on mood stabilizers address this issue .
Method	This study aimed to explore the prevalence and predictors of nonadherence in a cohort of individuals with affective disorders receiving long-term treatment with mood stabilizers .
Method	Subjects receiving lithium , carbamazepine , and/or valproate were identified from biochemistry laboratory data .
Method	Ninety-eight of these subjects had major depressive disorder ( N = 20 ) or bipolar disorder ( N = 78 ) ( DSM-IV ) and gave informed consent to participate in a structured clinical interview to assess their medication adherence and the factors that influenced it
Result	Just under 50 % of subjects ( 46/98 ) acknowledged some degree of medication nonadherence in the previous 2 years , and 32 % ( 29/92 ) reported only partial adherence in the last month ( missing 30 % or more of their prescribed medication ) .
Result	Backward stepwise logistic regression demonstrated that partially adherent subjects were best distinguished from adherent subjects by a more frequent past history of nonadherence , denial of severity of illness , and greater duration of being prescribed a m
Result	Rates of mood stabilizer nonadherence are high .
Result	Attitudes and behaviors are better predictors of nonadherence than side effects from medication .
Result	Clinicians need to inquire routinely about problems with adherence .

Method	Prospective monocentric follow-up study .
Background	To assess long-term functional and urodynamic results of augmentation enterocystoplasty in spinal cord injury ( SCI ) patients with detrusor hyperreflexia and reflex incontinence who failed to respond to conservative treatment .
Method	Department of Urology ( Pitié-Salpétrière Hospital , Paris , France ) , Department of Neurological Rehabilitation ( Raymond Poincaré Hospital , Garches , France ) , Assistance Publique - Hopitaux de Paris , University Paris VI and V , France .
Method	Prospective study of 17 SCI patients ( four above T6 level , nine between T6 and T12 , and four below T12 ) with history of refractory urge incontinence to pharmacotherapy .
Method	Partial cystectomy ( subtrigonal for 15 ) was performed with Hautmann enterocystoplasty ( 15 ) or detubularized clam cystoplasty ( two ) .
Result	Mean follow-up was 6.3 + / -3.8 years ( range 1.25 - 10.5 years ) .
Result	Fifteen of 17 ( 88.5 % ) patients were completely continent under self clean intermittent catheterization ( CIC ) ( mean 4.6 / day , range 4 - 7 ) .
Result	The remaining two patients with pudendal nerve denervation had persistent stress urinary incontinence .
Result	No operative complications were noted .
Result	Long-term complications included recurrent pyelonephritis for one patient .
Result	Maximal cystometric capacity increased from 174.1 + / -103.9 to 508.1 + / -215.8 ml ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Maximal end filling pressure decreased from 65.5 + / -50.2 to 18.3 + / -7.9 cm H2O ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Urodynamic evaluation and clinical assessment demonstrate long-term success of augmentation enterocystoplasty in an homogeneous population ( SCI ) without delayed complications in SCI patients .

Background	Irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) is a common chronic disorder that is associated with significant disability and health care costs .
Method	The purpose of this paper is to review and assess published randomised controlled trials examining the clinical effectiveness of interventions for IBS for 1987-1998 .
Method	( 1 ) These criteria are adequate description of randomisation , double blinding , and description of withdrawals and dropouts .
Result	It is concluded that there are few studies which offer convincing evidence of effectiveness in treating the IBS symptom complex .
Result	This review strongly suggests that future work should include well designed trials that : describe the randomisation method ; use internationally approved diagnostic criteria ; and are double blinded and placebo controlled .
Result	Clear well defined outcome measures are necessary .
Result	Inclusion of quality of life measures allows comparison between trials in different therapeutic areas .
Result	Conducting such studies will help to overcome some of the difficulties identified in this review .

Background	In addition to early responses after transcranial magnetic stimulation , usually designated as Motor Evoked Potentials ( MEP ) , several late responses have been reported in intervals up to 500 ms following stimulus .
Background	Our attention in this work was focused on the response in interval 150-300 ms after stimulus output , which is also designated as S > 150 response .
Method	We monitored longitudinally late S > 150 response in group of 19 stroke patient with verified hemispherical ischemic lesion .
Result	Our results have shown that the presence of late S > 150 response on the first day after stroke predicts an excellent improvement of clinical deficit and that late S > 150 response is more sensitive to hemispheric lesion than early MEPs .
Result	From this point of view , recording of late responses can supplement early MEP recording .
Result	Our study demonstrated that supratentorial structures are involved in the origin of the S > 150 response .
Result	According to the observation that in some patients a normal early response was present and an S > 150 response was absent on the hemiparetic side , and both responses were present on the unaffected side , we hypothesize that cortical structures play an impo

Background	There is compelling evidence that residents training in primary care need education in palliative care .
Background	Evidence for effective curricula is needed .
Method	The objective of this study was to test whether a clinical elective improves measures of knowledge and skill .
Method	Residents from three categorical training programs in internal medicine were recruited to an elective including clinical experiences in an acute hospital palliative care consultation service , on an acute hospice and palliative care unit , and in-home hospi
Method	A 25-question pre - and post-test and a videotaped interview with a standardized patient were used to assess communication skills and measure outcomes .
Result	Residents demonstrated a 10 percent improvement in knowledge after the four-week elective ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	All residents demonstrated basic competency in communication skills at the end of the rotation .
Result	These results indicate that clinical rotation shows promise as an educational intervention to improve palliative care knowledge and skills in primary care residents .
Result	An important limitation of the study is that it is an elective ; further studies with a required rotation and/or a control group are needed to confirm the findings .

Background	To examine the implantation potential of embryos from assisted reproductive technology cycles with low embryo production and to assess the effects of clinical variables and embryo scores ( ES ) on pregnancy outcome .
Method	Prospective clinical study .
Method	Assisted reproductive technology unit in a tertiary medical center .
Method	From July 1998 to December 2001 , 280 cycles in 229 infertile couples produced a limited number of one , two , or three embryos 3 days after oocyte retrieval and underwent fresh embryo transfer ( ET ) .
Method	Embryos with two or more blastomeres were scored and transferred .
Method	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE ( S ) ES and implantation rate per ET .
Result	Of 863 fresh ET cycles during the study period , 32.4 % ( 280 ) were low embryo producers .
Result	Among them , there were no significant differences in average ES of individual embryos in single , dual , or triple ET or in embryos obtained from patients with low or high E2 responses , or young or old age .
Result	Embryos derived from conventional IVF had a better ES than those derived from intracytoplasmic sperm injection .
Result	The clinical pregnancy rate was strongly correlated with the cumulative ES .
Result	Implantation rates were similar among and between groups , with an average rate of 15.9 % .
Method	Embryos of low embryo producers had an inherently low implantation potential that appeared to be unrelated to the number of embryos transferred , female age , ovarian E2 genesis , or fertilization method .
Result	The cumulative ES can serve as a predictor of pregnancy .

Background	CHARM ( candesartan in heart failure assessment of reduction in mortality and morbidity ) is the largest trial program in chronic heart failure .
Method	To elucidate the effect of candesartan on various symptomatic chronic heart failure , the randomization protocol was used in 3 separate trial arms : 2028 with LVEF < 40 % who could not tolerate ACE inhibitors ; 2548 with LVEF < 40 % who already were taki
Result	The overall mortality benefit of the candesartan was better than placebo .
Result	In the 2 trial arms that included patients with LVEF < 40 % , incidence of the mortality and hospitalization was significantly lower with candesartan than with placebo .
Result	It may be the new evidence of angiotensin receptor blocker on 3 other types of heart failure .

Background	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the quality of life ( QoL ) of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) caregivers , and to determine relationships that may exist between caregiver and patient QoL .
Method	Patients with definite MS ( n = 445 ) and their caregivers ( n = 445 ) were required to complete the generic , 36-item short-form ( SF-36 ) Health Survey .
Method	Median SF-36 dimension scores ranged from 55 to 100 for caregivers and from 46 to 78 for patients .
Result	Although the QoL of MS carers was not as severely affected as that of patients , caregiving was associated with lower mental health , vitality and general health scores , compared to healthy subjects .
Result	Multivariate analyses revealed significant differences between the predictors of patient QoL and caregiver QoL .
Result	The main predictors of patient QoL were Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) score , MS course , fatigue and depression .
Result	Female gender and advanced age were the main predictors of lower QoL in caregivers .
Result	In addition , patient BDI score was found to be a significant predictor of almost all caregiver SF-36 dimension scores , while EDSS score , disease duration and course , and patient therapeutic characteristics were found to be predictors of some caregiver SF -
Result	Therefore , caregiver QoL was significantly influenced by patient characteristics , and supportive strategies for MS caregivers are warranted .

Background	Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) impacts metabolic function and deranges various hormonal axes .
Background	Previous studies characterizing thyroid hormones in SCI reported depressed triiodothyronine ( T3 ) and thyroxin ( T4 ) , primarily in acute tetraplegics .
Background	These studies cited an 11-13 percent incidence of low T3 syndrome ( LT3S ) in SCI patients , with an increased incidence in tetraplegics ( 20-36 percent ) .
Background	The purpose of this study was to evaluate thyroid function and determine the incidence and clinical relevance of LT3S in the chronic SCI population .
Method	Thyroid function tests were performed on 30 chronic SCI patients ( 14 tetraplegics and 16 paraplegics ) and 30 age - and gender-matched controls .
Result	Mean T3 and T4 levels were significantly depressed in SCI patients relative to controls , while T3 resin uptake ( T3RU ) values were significantly elevated .
Result	LT3S only occurred in the SCI population with an incidence of 23.3 percent .
Result	SCI patients with LT3S did not differ significantly from those without in the level or completeness of injury , age or the interval since injury .
Result	When SCI patients with normal T3 were compared with controls , they still had depressed mean T3 levels .
Result	We conclude that LT3S occurs frequently in the chronic SCI population and suggest that depressed serum T3 levels may predispose SCI patients to sick euthyroidism in the face of minor pathologic insult .

Background	OBJECTIVE -- To evaluate whether specialist nurse visits enhance the social integration and perceived health of patients with stroke or alleviate stress in carers in longer term stroke care .
Method	DESIGN -- Stratified randomised controlled trial ; both groups assessed at time of recruitment and at 3 , 6 , and 12 months .
Method	SETTING -- Patients with disability related to new stroke who lived in their own homes in the Bradford Metropolitan District .
Method	SUBJECTS -- 240 patients aged 60 years or over , randomly allocated to control group ( n = 120 ) or intervention group ( n = 120 ) .
Method	Intervention -- Visits by specialist outreach nurses over 12 months to provide information , advice , and support ; minimum of six visits during the first six months .
Method	The control group received no visits .
Method	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES -- The Barthel index ( functional ability ) , the Frenchay activities index ( social activity ) , the Nottingham health profile ( perceived health status ) .
Method	Stress among carers was indicated by the general health questionnaire-28 ( 28 items ) .
Method	The nurses recorded their interventions in trial diaries .
Result	RESULTS -- There were no significant differences in perceived health , social activities , or stress among carers between the treatment and control groups at any of the assessments points .
Result	A subgroup of mildly disabled patients with stroke ( Barthel index 15-19 ) had an improved social outcome at six months ( Frenchay activities index , Median difference 3 ( 95 % confidence interval 0 to 6 ; P = 0.03 ) and for the full 12 months of follow up ( analy
Result	No proved strategy yet exists that can be recommended to address the psychosocial difficulties of patients with stroke and their families .

Background	Bradykinin has been strongly implicated as a mediator of cardiac nociception .
Background	During coronary artery occlusion , the content of bradykinin in coronary sinus blood increases .
Background	In non-cardiac tissues nociception to bradykinin exhibits tachyphylaxis , however , this phenomenon has not been rigorously studied in the heart .
Background	This raises the question that repeated coronary occlusions may also result in tachyphylaxis , thereby reducing cardiac sensation on subsequent ischemic stimulation .
Background	We therefore examined the hypothesis that repetitive episodes of myocardial ischemia and of epicardial application of bradykinin demonstrate tachyphylaxis .
Method	Mongrel cats were anesthetized with alpha-chloralose and heart rate , arterial pressure , and thoracic spinal neuron firing rate were recorded during 60 s of anterior descending coronary occlusion or local epicardial application of bradykinin ( 10 microM ) .
Result	Neurons were identified by cutaneous receptive fields in the left shoulder area .
Result	Sixty-one of 93 neurons tested responded with an increase in firing rate to coronary artery occlusion only ( n = 24 ) , bradykinin only ( n = 19 ) or to both ( n = 18 ) .
Result	On repetitive coronary occlusion , 14 of 25 neurons demonstrated tachyphylaxis compared to 12 of 15 tested with bradykinin ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	Similar responses were observed in thoracic spinal neurons that projected to the brain .
Result	In neurons demonstrating tachyphylaxis , dorsal cervical cold block partially restored the neuronal activation to coronary occlusion but not to bradykinin .
Result	We conclude , based on neuronal responses to repetitive stimuli , that afferent spinal responses to coronary occlusion and bradykinin are different .
Result	These data suggest that bradykinin is not the sole mediator of myocardial ischemic pain .
Result	The tachyphylaxis to repeated coronary artery occlusions may contribute to the clinical phenomenon of silent myocardial ischemia .

Background	An elevated risk of ovarian cancer has been observed in Norwegian pulp and paper workers who were possibly occupationally exposed to asbestos .
Method	The present study was initiated to investigate if the increased risk could be associated with asbestos fibers in ovarian tissue from workers in this industry .
Method	Normal ovarian tissue specimens from three groups of women were included in the study .
Method	The case group included specimens from 46 women diagnosed with ovarian cancer in the period 1953-2000 , and who had been working in one or more pulp and paper mills between 1920 and 1993 .
Method	Normal ovarian tissue specimens from two control groups without occupational history from pulp and paper work were selected from the Cancer Registry database .
Method	Tissue blocks were digested and prepared for transmission electron microscopy .
Method	Number of fibers per gram wet weight was calculated .
Result	Asbestos fibers were found in normal ovarian tissue from two subjects in the case group , while no fibers were found in the control groups .
Result	The two asbestos positive cases had been working as paper sorter/packer and chlorine plant worker , respectively .
Result	Both were possibly secondary exposed to asbestos from family members working as insulators .
Result	We conclude that the findings in this study did not allow drawing any firm conclusion about an association between occupational exposure to asbestos and ovarian cancer in Norwegian pulp and paper workers .
Result	Our study confirms that asbestos fibers may reach the ovaries and demonstrates that the applied method is appropriate for identification of the fibers .

Background	Elevated levels of total and low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol and low levels of high density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol are important risk factors for coronary heart disease .
Background	Another established predictor of cardiovascular disease is obesity .
Background	Obesity and overweight are widespread phenomena and they have reached epidemic proportions in the developed countries , including Poland .
Background	Only 30 % of people in the Lublin region have normal weight ( BMI < 25 ) .
Method	The aim of this study was to asses the relationship between BMI ( body mass index ) and blood lipids in the population of 83 people from Aleksandrow commune ( 64 women and 19 men aged 28-81 ) who spontaneously applied for medical examination performed as stud
Result	Mean total cholesterol and triglycerides concentrations were higher in obese persons in comparison to normal weight subjects and HDL cholesterol concentration was lower in obese subjects as compared to normal and overweight individuals .
Result	Differences in mean concentrations of LDL cholesterol were not significant .
Result	A linear correlation between the degree of obesity and plasma level of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides was shown .
Result	In conclusion , obesity and overweight are accompanied by unfavourable blood lipids patterns and in a considerable proportion of overweight or obese patients other risk factors for coronary heart disease , such as hypertension , smoking , diabetes or family h

Background	The excitability of a lower limb myotatic reflex arc is modulated by the antecedent activation of another myotatic arc in the same limb ; the changes can be represented by heteronymous excitability curves .
Background	This work compares heteronymous excitability curves in spastic and normal subjects .
Method	Eighteen patients who showed clear signs of pyramidal tract lesions at a chronic stage were studied .
Method	Three myotatic arcs of the lower limb ( soleus , quadriceps , and short biceps ) were activated either by mechanical percussion ( T Sol-T Quad-TSBi ) or by electrical stimulation of the afferent nerve ( H Sol-H Quad ) .
Method	They were used as conditioning and test responses in six different combinations , and the results compared to those obtained previously in normal volunteers .
Result	In spastic patients , heteronymous excitability curves are more obviously modified than homonymous ones .
Result	The changes are most prominent in the thigh muscles and less marked when the soleus reflex is conditioned by activation of quadriceps and biceps femoris myotatic reflex arcs .

Background	Spinal cord injury , regardless of its level , causes flaccid paralysis during the shock phase affecting the detrusor and rectal musculature .
Background	Then , depending on the level and severity of the lesion , the bladder gains spasticity or remains flaccid .
Background	Monitoring the reflex behaviour of detrusor and sphincter activities helps to select the treatment modalities .
Method	Thirty patients with cord injuries of various levels have been urodynamically tested at 3-month intervals .
Result	The shock phase of the acutely tested patients lasted about 8-9 weeks .
Result	Eventually , 23 of the cases were hyperreflexic , while 7 cases remained areflexic : 2 had detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia .
Result	The response to treatment has been investigated by cystometrographical and electromyographical methods .

Method	The data reported are from a 20 % probability sample ( n = 2516 ) of all adult patients seeking care in the emergency room at San Francisco General Hospital during a 60-day period .
Result	Thirty-five percent ( 35 % ) of the injured and 18 % of the non-injured reported drinking prior to the event .
Background	This paper compares the following variables related to drinking-in-the-event for injured and non-injured : drinking places , drinking companions , amount consumed , time lapsed between drinking and the event , effects of drinking and causality attributed by th
Result	When these variables were entered into a logistic regression to evaluate their predictive value on injury status , only time lapsed since the last drink and drug use prior to the event were predictive of injury with both being negatively associated with ad
Result	Injuries were more likely than non-injuries to occur in close proximity to drinking ( 44 % of injuries occurred in less than 1 h of the last drink ) , and close to a third of the injured attributed a causal association of drinking with the event , with 60 % of

Background	We examined affective and cognitive components of body image related to physical appearance , weight , and health among 120 university men and women of three racial/ethnic groups : African American , European American , and Latino/a American .
Method	Participants completed a Background Information Sheet , the Multidimensional Body-Self Relations Questionnaire ( MBSRQ ) , the Body-Esteem Scale ( BES ) with additional items , and the Balanced Inventory of Desirable Responding ( BIDR ) .
Method	We tested for effects of race/ethnicity and gender on the body image measures while controlling for age , body size , social desirability , and socioeconomic status ( SES ) .
Result	African Americans reported greatest body satisfaction and least overestimation of weight .
Result	Latino/a Americans were equal to or higher than European Americans on all indices .
Result	Gender differences occurred on global body image , weight concerns , fitness , and health .
Result	There were no Gender x Race/Ethnicity interactions .
Result	This pattern of racial/ethnic and gender differences shows a need for exploring a wider range of culturally relevant body image dimensions .

Background	To quantify posttraumatic brain injury ( post-TBI ) mental fatigue objectively by documenting changes in performance on neuropsychological tests as a result of sustained mental effort and to examine the relationship between objectively measured mental fatig
Method	The study included 202 community-dwelling individuals with mild-severe TBI and 73 noninjured controls .
Method	Measures included Cambridge Neuropsychological Test Automated Battery , Global Fatigue Index , and situational fatigue rating .
Method	Subjects were administered a 30-minute computerized neuropsychological test battery 3 times .
Method	The second and third administrations of the battery were separated by approximately 2 hours of interviews and administration of self-report measures .
Result	The neuropsychological test scores were factor analyzed , yielding 3 subscales : speed , accuracy , and executive function .
Result	Situational fatigue and day-to-day fatigue were significantly higher in individual with TBI group than in individuals without TBI and were associated with speed subscale scores .
Result	Individuals with TBI evidenced a significant decline in performance on the accuracy subscale score .
Result	These declines in performance related to sustained mental effort were not associated with subjective fatigue in the TBI group .
Result	While practice effects on the speed and accuracy scores were observed in non-brain-injured individuals , they were not evidenced in individuals with TBI .
Result	Findings were largely consistent with previous literature and indicated that while subjective fatigue is associated with poor performance in individuals with TBI , it is not associated with objective decline in performance of mental tasks .

Background	Magnetic resonance ( MR ) - based techniques are widely used for the assessment of patients with suspected and definite multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
Background	However , despite the publication of several position papers , which attempted to define the utility of MR techniques in the management of MS , their application in everyday clinical practice is still suboptimal .
Background	This is probably related , not only , to the fact that the majority of published guidelines focused on the optimization of MR technology in clinical trials , but also to the continuing development of modern , quantitative MR-based techniques , that have not as
Result	The present report summarizes the conclusions of the ` EFNS Expert Panel of Neuroimaging of MS ' on the application of conventional and non-conventional MR techniques to the clinical management of patients with MS.
Result	These guidelines are intended to assist in the use of conventional MRI for the diagnosis and longitudinal monitoring of patients with MS.
Result	In addition , they should provide a foundation for the development of more widespread but rational clinical applications of non-conventional MR-based techniques in studies of MS patients .

Background	ACE ( angiotensin-converting enzyme ) inhibitors and PDE5 ( phosphodiesterase type 5 ) inhibitors have each been reported to improve endothelial function in cardiovascular disease patients , but the comparative and combined effects of these two classes have no
Method	We sought to characterize the acute effects of ramipril alone , sildenafil alone , or their combination on endothelial function in patients with CHF ( chronic heart failure ) .
Method	CHF subjects ( n = 64 ) were randomized to receive placebo , 10 mg of ramipril alone , 50 mg of sildenafil alone or a combination of ramipril and sildenafil in a double-blind manner .
Method	FMD ( flow-mediated dilation ) of the brachial artery was determined by high-resolution ultrasound imaging before and at 1 , 2 and 4 h after administration of the study drug .
Result	Ramipril alone increased FMD at 4 h compared with placebo ( +2.3 + / -1.3 % , P = 0.02 ) .
Result	Sildenafil alone increased FMD at 1 , 2 and 4 h compared with placebo ( +3.9 + / -1.4 , +4.6 + / -1.8 and +3.7 + / -1.3 % respectively , all P < 0.02 ) .
Result	Sildenafil in combination with ramipril increased FMD at 1 , 2 and 4 h when compared with placebo ( +3.5 + / -1.5 , +4.5 + / -1.8 and +4.8 + / -1.3 % respectively , all P < 0.03 ) .
Result	Ramipril and sildenafil both acutely improved FMD in patients with CHF , with additive effects evident at 4 h during combination therapy .
Result	Therefore further work to characterize chronic effects of combined ACE and PDE5 inhibition on endothelial function are warranted .

Background	The aim of this study was to examine the perception of low back pain care and consequences according to what Deyo refers to as seven `` myths '' about back pain , in the Norwegian population .
Method	In spring 2001 , seven questions , corresponding to Deyo 's myths , were included in an opinion poll ( telephone interviews ) of a representative sample ( n = 1015 ) of the Norwegian population .
Result	In total , 41 % of the population held that ` If you have a slipped disc you must have surgery ' .
Result	Approximately 50 % believed that ` X-ray and newer imaging tests can always identify the cause of pain ' and ` Most back pain is caused by injury and heavy lifting ' .
Result	Almost 60 % agreed that ` Everyone with back pain should have a spine X-ray ' .
Result	However , only one-quarter believed that ` If your back hurts , you should take it easy until the pain goes away ' , and approximately one-fifth believed that ` Back pain is usually disabling ' .
Result	Only 12 % believed that ` Bed rest is the mainstay of therapy ' .
Result	More individuals in the lower - compared with the higher-educated groups believed in the myths .
Result	Information concerning current knowledge on healthcare and health consequences of low back pain had reached only a small part of the general population .
Result	The most important factor for lack of knowledge was education .
Result	Developing effective methods to promote adequate self-care and treatment and reduce the risk of chronicity of low back pain in the lower-educated groups should be a top priority .

Background	Research has demonstrated that women with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) do not make maximum use of information about osteoporosis prevention and management , even when they are well-informed .
Method	Focus-group methodology and telephone interviews were used to study how women with MS use or could use information about osteoporosis prevention and management to influence their healthcare providers to attend to osteoporosis-related needs .
Method	Twenty-two participants were asked to discuss their own and their peers ' experience of sharing osteoporosis screening results with healthcare providers , as well as factors they think might influence healthcare providers to attend to osteoporosis risk redu
Result	Using comparative content analysis , the transcribed data were clustered into seven thematic areas : women 's need to educate themselves about osteoporosis ; women 's need to educate their healthcare providers about osteoporosis as well as other women 's health
Result	These themes suggest directions for the development of strategies to enable women with MS to influence their healthcare providers in osteoporosis prevention and management .

Background	Effective alternatives to long waiting lists for entry into methadone hydrochloride maintenance treatment are needed to reduce the complications of continuing heroin dependence and to increase methadone treatment entry .
Method	To compare the effectiveness of interim methadone maintenance with that of the usual waiting list condition in facilitating methadone treatment entry and reducing heroin and cocaine use and criminal behavior .
Method	Randomized , controlled , clinical trial using 2 conditions , with treatment assignment on a 3:2 basis to interim maintenance-waiting list control .
Method	A methadone treatment program in Baltimore .
Method	A total of 319 individuals meeting the criteria for current heroin dependence and methadone maintenance treatment .
Method	Participants were randomly assigned to either interim methadone maintenance , consisting of an individually determined methadone dose and emergency counseling only for up to 120 days , or referral to community-based methadone treatment programs .
Method	Entry into comprehensive methadone maintenance therapy at 4 months from baseline ; self-reported days of heroin use , cocaine use , and criminal behavior ; and number of urine drug test results positive for heroin and cocaine at the follow-up interview conducted at time of entry into comprehensive methadone treatment ( or at 4 months from baseline for participants who did not enter regular treatment ) .
Result	Significantly more participants assigned to the interim methadone maintenance condition entered comprehensive methadone maintenance treatment by the 120th day from baseline ( 75.9 % ) than those assigned to the waiting list control condition ( 20.8 % ) ( P < .0
Result	Overall , in the past 30 days at follow-up , interim participants reported significantly fewer days of heroin use ( P < .001 ) , had a significant reduction in heroin-positive drug test results ( P < .001 ) , reported spending less money on drugs ( P < .001 ) , a
Result	Interim methadone maintenance results in a substantial increase in the likelihood of entry into comprehensive treatment , and is an effective means of reducing heroin use and criminal behavior among opioid-dependent individuals awaiting entry into a compre

Background	An 18-yr-old boy presented with extreme back pain as the result of multiple vertebral fractures .
Background	At age 16 he had developed a tumor of the mesencephalon .
Method	A ventriculoperitoneal shunt was established surgically .
Background	One year later , he developed progressive neurologic deficits in his upper and lower limbs with an increase in the size of the tumor .
Background	He was treated by irradiation and high doses of glucocorticoids .
Background	Although the neurologic deficits progressively improved , he developed severe back pain resulting in complete immobilization for 3 mo in spite of neurologic recovery .
Background	Multiple vertebral fractures were diagnosed by X-ray .
Background	Bone density was extremely low ( Z-score of -5.5 in the spine and -3.1 in the femoral neck ) .
Method	The patient was treated with calcium and vitamin D , calcitonin , bisphosphonates , physiotherapy , and progressive mobilization .
Method	Glucocorticoids were decreased and could be stopped as the neurologic deficits fully recovered .
Result	After 1 yr of treatment with intermittent i.v. pamidronate , bone density had increased by 40 % in the spine and by 25 % in the femoral neck despite growth arrest .
Result	He progressively recovered from back pain and is now , at age 20 , fully ambulant , studying mechanical engineering , without neurologic sequelaes and free of glucocorticoids .
Result	Magnetic resonance imaging revealed that the tumor had disappeared .
Result	This case proves that treatment of symptomatic glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis during puberty can be rewarding , even when multiple and invalidating vertebral fractures already exist .

Background	Oxidative stress plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases , such as Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
Background	There are several methods to measure oxidative stress , being lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) one of the most frequently used .
Method	Endogenous plasma LPO was determined by a spectrofluorimetric method in fifty two patients with sporadic PD and in forty controls .
Method	To know the maximum capacity of lipids to peroxidate , LPO was also measured after co-incubation with Fe2 + / H2O2 ( exogenous LPO ) .
Method	All PD patients were taken L-dopa and the effect of this treatment on LPO levels was additionally studied .
Method	Urine catecholamines and their main metabolites were also analyzed , and their possible correlation to LPO statistically studied .
Result	Endogenous plasma LPO levels were 33 % higher in PD group than in control group ( P < 0.001 ) .
Result	Exogenous plasma or oxidizability was also higher in PD patients compared to controls ( 20 % , P < 0.05 ) .
Result	The intake of L-dopa was negatively dose-related to endogenous and exogenous plasma LPO .
Result	In conclusion , plasma of PD patients has elevated levels of LPO and also is more prone to peroxidation than that in the control group .
Result	The results also suggest an antioxidant effect of L-dopa .

Background	The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that obsessive-compulsive symptoms are temporarily worsened by acute intravenous clomipramine , suggesting that there is a basal hypersensitivity of serotonin ( 5-HT ) receptors in obsessive-compulsive ( OC ) pa
Background	We also investigated the relationship of the effects of acute ( intravenous ) and chronic ( oral ) administration of clomipramine .
Method	Twenty-eight OC patients were recruited .
Method	The first part of the study included placebo and clomipramine infusions and monitoring of OC symptoms by 100 mm Visual Analogue self-rated scales ( VAS ) .
Result	There was significant worsening of obsessions in the whole sample during clomipramine infusion .
Method	The second part included standardized 10-week oral treatments with clomipramine and evaluation of clinical efficacy .
Result	Among the 18 patients who completed the second part of the study , oral clomipramine significantly reduced OC symptoms , but OC patients who had become worse after clomipramine infusion showed higher Y-BOCS scores .

Background	Consumption of trans fatty acids ( TFA ) predicts higher risk of coronary heart disease , sudden death , and possibly diabetes mellitus .
Background	These associations are greater than would be predicted by effects of TFA on serum lipoproteins alone .
Background	Systemic inflammation and endothelial dysfunction may be involved in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis , acute coronary syndromes , sudden death , insulin resistance , dyslipidemia , and heart failure .
Background	Evidence from both observational and experimental studies indicates that TFA are pro-inflammatory .
Result	Limited evidence suggests that pro-inflammatory effects may be stronger for trans isomers of linoleic acid ( trans-C18 :2 ) and oleic acid ( trans-C18 :1 ) , rather than of palmitoleic acid ( trans-C16 :1 ) , but further study of potential isomer-specific effects is
Result	TFA also appear to induce endothelial dysfunction .
Result	The mechanisms underlying these effects are not well-established , but may involve TFA incorporation into endothelial cell , monocyte/macrophage , or adipocyte cell membranes ( affecting membrane signaling pathway relating to inflammation ) or ligand-dependent
Result	Activation of inflammatory responses and endothelial dysfunction may represent important mediating pathways between TFA consumption and risk of coronary heart disease , sudden death , and diabetes .
Result	Further study is indicated to define these effects of TFA and the implications of such effects for cardiovascular health .

Background	The US Office of Family Planning ( FP ) has issued 10 research grants ranging from $ 100,000 to $ 250,000 to organizations seeking to develop , implement , and test ways to involve young men in FP and reproductive health services .
Background	While only 2 % of federal dollars are currently earmarked for reproductive health services for young men , a survey revealed that only 32 % of sexually active men and 17 % of sexually inexperienced men reported receiving contraceptive information from health
Background	One grant recipient is a cooperative venture of the University of North Carolina , the Guilford County health department , and `` Wise Guys , '' a male responsibility/adolescent pregnancy prevention program developed by the local Family Life Council in
Background	The grant allowed Wise Guys to add a peer education component and hire the first male health educator in the county health department .
Result	This educator notes that the biggest misconceptions held by young men about the health department are that test results are shared with parents , that the agency serves only impoverished people , and that every client must be tested for pregnancy or sexuall
Result	The health educator addresses these misconceptions in classes and individual counseling sessions , and he accompanies young men to STD tests.americascritiquedelivery of health caredeveloped countrieseconomic factorsfamily planningfamily planning programs --

Background	Endomorphin-1 ( Tyr-Pro-Trp-Phe-NH2 , EM-1 ) and endomorphin-2 ( Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH2 , EM-2 ) have the highest affinity and selectivity for the mu-opioid receptor ( MOP-R ) of all known mammalian opioids .
Method	They were isolated from bovine and human brain , and are structurally distinct from the other endogenous opioids .
Background	Both EM-1 and EM-2 have potent antinociceptive activity in a variety of animal models of acute , neuropathic and allodynic pain .
Background	They regulate cellular signaling processes in a manner consistent with MOP-R-mediated effects .
Background	The EMs are implicated in the natural modulation of pain by extensive data localizing EM-like immunoreactivity ( EM-LI ) near MOP-Rs in several regions of the nervous system known to regulate pain .
Background	These include the primary afferents and their terminals in the spinal cord dorsal horn , where EM-2 is well-positioned to modulate pain in its earliest stages of perception .
Method	In a nerve-injury model of chronic pain , a loss of spinal EM2-LI occurs concomitant with the onset of chronic pain .
Result	The distribution of the EMs in other areas of the nervous system is consistent with a role in the modulation of diverse functions , including autonomic , neuroendocrine and reward functions as well as modulation of responses to pain and stress .
Result	Unlike several other mu opioids , the threshold dose of EM-1 for analgesia is well below that for respiratory depression .
Result	In addition , rewarding effects of EM-1 can be separated from analgesic effects .
Result	These results indicate a favorable therapeutic profile of EM-1 relative to other mu opioids .
Result	Thus , the pharmacology and distribution of EMs provide new avenues both for therapeutic development and for understanding the neurobiology of opioids .

Background	Our aim was to evaluate the efficacy of maintenance oral nifedipine in pregnant women initially treated with intravenous ritodrine plus verapamil for preterm labor .
Method	The study included 73 patients with preterm labor with intact membranes .
Method	Patients were randomized to receive either maintenance oral nifedipine therapy ( n = 37 ) administered 20 mg every six hours or no treatment ( controls , n = 36 ) after discontinuation of acute intravenous tocolysis .
Result	Compared to the control group , the mean + / - SD time gained from initiation of maintenance therapy to delivery ( 26.65 + / - 18.89 vs. 16.14 + / - 12.91 days , p = 0.007 ) and the gestational age at delivery ( 37.03 + / - 2.06 vs. 35.1 + / - 3 weeks , p = 0.003 ) were highe
Result	The proportion of patients who required one or more courses of subsequent intravenous therapy and perinatal outcomes were similar in the maintenance therapy and control groups .
Result	The gestational age and time gained from initiation of maintenance therapy to delivery were longer in women receiving oral maintenance tocolysis with nifedipine .
Result	However , maintenance therapy did not decrease the recurrence of preterm labor episodes or improve perinatal outcomes .

Method	An inception cohort design was used to study a consecutive sample of back-injured workers .
Background	To refine and to test the Vermont Disability Prediction Questionnaire 's ability to indicate an individual 's relative risk for chronic disability after occupational low back injury .
Method	Although most back-injured workers return to work quickly , the minority who do not account for the majority of associated costs and health care .
Background	Early identification of workers at high risk for disability would facilitate intervention strategies .
Method	During the study recruitment period , people aged 18-60 years reporting occupational low back injury to the Vermont Department of Labor and Industry within 11 days of onset were eligible .
Method	A Vermont Disability Prediction Questionnaire was mailed to the 442 subjects who could be contacted and who gave informed consent .
Method	One hundred sixty-three of the 166 subjects who completed and returned the questionnaire within 15 days of initial injury were telephoned 3 months later to determine work status .
Method	Those who returned the questionnaire were compared with those who would not consent or did not return the questionnaire in time according to age , sex , residence , wages , work hours per week , and length of employment .
Method	Employment status ( inability to work because of low back pain ) was evaluated by telephone interview 3 months after initial injury .
Result	The follow-up interviewer was blinded to the Vermont Disability Prediction Questionnaire scores .
Result	of the 163 subjects , 16 ( 10 % ) were not working because of low back pain .
Result	Using a simple dichotomous scoring system for 11 questionnaire items , a cut-off score of 0.48 identified 3-month postinjury work status , with 0.94 sensitivity and 0.84 specificity .
Result	The Vermont Disability Prediction Questionnaire is a brief , easily administered and scored tool for identifying back-injured workers at relative risk for chronic disability .
Result	Such early identification should increase the efficiency of disability prevention strategies by directing them toward people who need them most .
Result	The accuracy of the questionnaire needs to be tested in a variety of different clinical and socioeconomic settings .

Background	This study investigated the outcome of anterior decompression and stabilization for `` unstable '' burst fractures without initial neurologic deficits in the thoracolumbar spine .
Background	To determine the pain and work status of the patients , who underwent the anterior decompression and stabilization , to evaluate the relationship between residual back pain and the degree of kyphosis , and to analyze the advantages and disadvantages of surge
Method	A retrospective review was conducted on 45 patients with unstable burst fractures in the thoracolumbar spine treated by anterior decompression and stabilization in our institutions from 1982 to 1993 .
Method	Nineteen patients were available for this study .
Method	Ten patients were men and 9 were women .
Method	Their age at surgery ranged from 15 to 76 years ( average , 46 years ) .
Method	The duration of follow-up ranged from 24 to 84 months ( average follow-up , 54 months ) .
Method	All clinical charts and radiologic data of these patients were reviewed by the first author .
Method	Their pain , work , and employment statuses were assessed by the scales proposed by Denis in 1984 .
Result	Nine patients were rated P1 , 7 were rated P2 , 2 were rated P3 , 1 was rated P5 , 11 were rated W1 , 3 were W2 , 1 was W3 , and 4 were rated W5 .
Result	Even the physical laborers ' return to work averaged 5 months after surgery ( range , 3-12 months ) .
Result	The postoperative kyphotic angle ranged from -6 degrees to 45 degrees ( average , 11 degrees ) , and it remained -5 degrees to 45 degrees ( average , 12 degrees ) at final follow-up .
Result	There was no statistical correlation between the kyphotic angle and the pain scale .
Result	Anterior decompression and stabilization for unstable burst fracture without initial neurologic deficits in the thoracolumbar spine has some advantages in the view of anatomical reduction and rigid stability that allows patients an early rehabilitation , r

Background	Low-dose follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) regimens for induction of ovulation for women with polycystic ovaries have succeeded in reducing the rate of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome ( OHSS ) almost to nil and the rate of multiple pregnancies to a minim
Background	This has been achieved by reaching , but not exceeding , the threshold level of FSH , starting with a daily dose of 75 IU for 14 days , using small incremental dose rises where necessary , and inducing uniovulation in 70 % of cycles .
Result	Conception rates are as good , if not better , than those achieved with conventional therapy .
Result	The miscarriage rate is still relatively high ( 20-25 % ) and obese women fare worse .
Result	Serum oestradiol concentrations and the number of large and intermediate follicles on the day of human chorionic gonadotrophin administration are much lower , in parallel with lower serum FSH concentrations .
Result	Inhibin values increase with the rise in serum FSH concentrations but those of luteinizing hormone decrease steadily throughout the follicular phase .
Result	New data using recombinant hFSH ( rhFSH ) , rather than urinary gonadotrophin as the ovarian stimulant , demonstrate that treatment time is shortened .
Result	However , the ideal regimen has still to be formulated .

Background	Remodeling of myocardial cell membranes is a major feature of advanced age .
Background	Mitochondrial function , crucial to sustaining energy production and management of myocardial metabolism , is impacted by age-dependent remodeling and ultimately exhibits a diminished threshold for excess Ca ( 2 + ) buffering during events that stimulate increa
Background	Relative Ca ( 2 + ) intolerance , augmented superoxide formation and reduced efficiency in the management of reactive oxygen species , are important mitochondrial factors ( of many ) that are apparent in senescence and predispose the myocardium to be more vulnera
Background	In addition to cell death , surviving myocytes increase in size and exhibit altered gene expression of key effector proteins , including those that sustain Ca ( 2 + ) homeostasis .
Background	Age-associated mitochondrial membrane changes include increases in membrane rigidity , cholesterol , phosphatidylcholine , omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) , 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal , and decreases in omega-3 PUFA and cardiolipin .
Result	These effects have been shown in animal studies to be exaggerated by diet rich in long chain omega-6 PUFA ( i.e. , arachidonic acid ) , and have profound consequences on the efficacy of membrane proteins involved with ion homeostasis , signal transduction , red
Result	However , some of the age-related detrimental adaptations may be beneficially modified by dietary strategy .
Result	Diet rich in omega-3 PUFA reverses the age-associated membrane omega-3 : omega-6 PUFA imbalance , and dysfunctional Ca ( 2 + ) metabolism , facilitating increased efficiency of mitochondrial energy production and improved tolerance of ischemia and reperfusion .

Background	Tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF alpha ) is a pleiotropic cytokine involved in inflammatory cascades associated with CNS injury .
Method	To examine the role of TNF alpha in the acute pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) , we studied its expression , localization and modulation in a clinically relevant rat model of non-penetrating head trauma .
Result	TNF alpha levels increased significantly in the injured cortex at 1 and 4 , but not at 12 , 24 or 72 h after severe lateral fluid-percussion trauma ( 2.6-2 .7 atm ) .
Result	TNF alpha was not elevated after mild injury .
Result	At 1 and 4 h after severe TBI , marked increases of TNF alpha were localized immunocytochemically to neurons of the injured cerebral cortex .
Result	A small population of astrocytes , ventricular cells and microvessels , also showed positive TNF alpha staining , but this expression was not injury-dependent .
Result	Macrophages that were present in a hemorrhagic zone along the external capsule , corpus callosum and alveus hippocampus at 4 h after TBI did not express TNF alpha .
Result	Intracerebroventricular administration of a selective TNF alpha antagonist -- soluble TNF alpha receptor fusion protein ( sTNFR : Fc ) ( 37.5 microg ) -- at 15 min before and 1 h after TBI , improved performance in a series of standardized motor tasks after injury .
Result	In contrast , intravenous administration of sTNFR : Fc ( 0.2 , 1 or 5 mg/kg ) at 15 min after trauma did not improve motor outcome .
Result	Collectively , this evidence suggests that enhanced early neuronal expression of TNF alpha after TBI contributes to subsequent neurological dysfunction .

Background	When familial adenomatous polyposis ( FAP ) is diagnosed in a patient , prophylactic surgery must be performed whether colorectal cancer is present or not .
Background	Operations for FAP have been performed through a large median abdominal incision or an additional perineal incision , depending on the coexistence of rectal cancer .
Method	Recently , we reported a technique of laparoscopic rectal amputation without abdominal skin incision for patients with rectal cancer to minimize postoperative cardiac and respiratory complications [ 6 ] .
Method	In this article , we report a case of laparoscopically assisted proctocolectomy with ileostomy through a minimal abdominal and perineal skin incision performed by a hand-assisted procedure .
Result	The purpose of combining the perineal and laparoscopic approaches is to minimize the skin incision , while retaining a rate of cure and safety equivalent to those of conventional rectal amputation , by using the advantages of laparoscopic procedures , and to

Background	To investigate the relationships among intoxication at time of injury , preinjury history of problem drinking , and early functional status in patients with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Method	Prospective cohort study .
Method	Acute inpatient TBI rehabilitation .
Method	Participants were 1748 persons with TBI .
Method	Not applicable .
Method	Blood alcohol levels ( BALs ) were obtained at admission to the emergency department , and a history of problem drinking was obtained through interview .
Method	Study outcomes , Disability Rating Scale ( DRS ) , and FIM instrument scores were gathered at admission to inpatient rehabilitation .
Result	Multivariate regression analysis revealed that BAL and a history of binge drinking were predictive of DRS , but not FIM , scores .
Result	A higher BAL was associated with poorer functional status on the DRS.
Result	Paradoxically , a history of binge drinking was associated with more intact functional status on the DRS.
Result	The relationships among intoxication at time of injury , history of problem drinking , and early outcome after TBI were modest .
Result	Injury severity had a more significant association with TBI functional status .

Background	Early diagnosis and therapy of the underlying insulin resistance of heritable polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) , often manifested at menarche , facilitate the reduction and/or reversal of the reproductive and metabolic morbidity of PCOS , as well as reduce t
Background	PCOS is characterised by oligoamenorrhoea , clinical and biochemical hyperandrogenism , infertility , recurrent miscarriage , insulin resistance , hyperinsulinaemia , gestational diabetes , impaired glucose tolerance , Type 2 diabetes , morbid obesity , hypertensio
Background	Insulin sensitising-lowering agents reduce insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia , reverse PCOS endocrinopathy and ameliorate the reproductive , metabolic and cardiovascular morbidity of the disorder .
Background	The largest literature on the subject discusses metformin .
Result	Improved pregnancy outcomes in women with PCOS receiving metformin may be attributed to its ability to reduce insulin resistance , hyperinsulinaemia and hypofibrinolytic plasminogen activator inhibitor activity by the enhancement of folliculogenesis and im

Background	Dysfunction of surviving axons which traverse the site of spinal cord injury ( SCI ) appears to contribute to posttraumatic neurological deficits , though the underlying mechanisms remain unclear .
Background	Although demyelination of injured but surviving axons following trauma appear to be a major contributor of axonal conduction deficits , altered activity of ion channels may also play an important role .
Background	It has been theorized that exposure of K + channels as a result of demyelination would result in a reduced safety factor of action potential propagation across the demyelinated region of the axon .
Background	This theory and electrophysiological studies using K + channel blockers on animal nerve preparations prompted the investigation of 4-aminopyridine ( 4-AP ) , a blocker of rapidly activating voltage-gated K + channels , as a therapeutic agent in both multiple sc
Method	Several preliminary clinical trials have already demonstrated therapeutic benefit of 4-AP in both multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients .
Method	In this review , we shall give a comprehensive summary of the mechanisms of axonal dysfunction following SCI and how axonal dysfunction may have resulted due to specific pathological changes following trauma including the ultrastructural and molecular chan
Result	The pathology of spinal cord injury is very complex and many different mechanisms may contribute to axonal conduction deficits and the associated sensory and motor loss .

Method	We performed a 3-month , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial of 300 mg of gangliosides ( Cronassial ) in 40 outpatients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) .
Method	We evaluated drug effect through physical examinations and symptom scales .
Result	Though this dosage had no major toxic effect , Cronassial treatment did not significantly benefit ALS patients .

Background	Previous studies suggested that magnetization transfer ratio ( MTR ) histograms are highly correlated with other magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) measures and can be used as a reliable method for quantifying overall disease burden in multiple sclerosis ( MS )
Background	However , the relative influence of burden and severity of macroscopic MS lesions and degree of brain atrophy on various MTR histogram parameters has not yet been fully elucidated .
Method	Aim of the present study was to investigate which MRI measure best predicts the values of MTR histogram parameters in MS patients .
Method	Forty-two MS patients underwent brain dual-echo .
Method	T1-weighted and magnetization transfer imaging ( MTI ) MRI scans .
Method	Hyperintense lesion load ( LL ) on proton density ( PD ) - weighted and hypointense LL on T1-weighted images were measured using a local thresholding technique .
Method	A measure of brain atrophy was derived from T1-weighted images by computing the volume of brain tissue segmented from a slab of five consecutive slices rostral to the velum interpositum .
Method	On MTI scans , MTR histogram analysis was performed for the whole brain and average lesion MTR was also calculated .
Result	PD-weighted LL , T1-weighted LL and brain volume were significantly correlated with several MTI-derived measures .
Result	When a multivariate analysis was performed , brain volume alone significantly predicted the values of all the MTR histogram-derived measures ( P values ranged from 0.003 to 0.0002 ) .
Result	The ratio between hypointense T1-weighted and hyperintense PD-weighted LL significantly predicted average lesion MTR ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Our results confirm that MTR can be used as a reliable method to assess both the overall disease burden and the individual lesion intrinsic nature in MS patients .
Result	The significant influence of brain atrophy on MTR histogram parameters supports the concept that this method also provides information on the loss of brain parenchyma in MS.

Background	Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a cholestatic disease .
Background	D-penicillamine is suggested as a treatment option due to its copper reducing and immunomodulatory potential .
Method	To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
Method	Eligible trials were identified through searches of The Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register ( August 2005 ) , The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in The Cochrane Library ( Issue 3 , 2005 ) , MEDLINE ( 1950 to August 2005 ) , EMBASE ( 1980 to August 2005 ) , Science Citation Index EXPANDED ( 1945 to August 2005 ) , and reference lists of relevant articles .
Method	Authors of trials and pharmaceutical companies known to produce D-penicillamine were also contacted .
Method	Randomised clinical trials comparing D-penicillamine in any dose , duration , and route of administration versus placebo , no intervention , or other intervention ( s ) .
Method	Trials were included irrespective of publication status , year of publication , language , or blinding .
Method	Both authors selected the trials , extracted data , and evaluated the methodological quality of the trials with respect to the generation of allocation sequence , allocation concealment , blinding , and follow-up .
Method	The results were reported by intention-to-treat analysis .
Method	The outcomes were presented as relative risk ( RR ) or weighted mean difference ( WMD ) , both with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) .
Method	One randomised trial was identified and included in the review .
Method	It was of low methodological quality .
Method	The trial compared D-penicillamine versus placebo in 70 patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
Result	Compared with placebo , D-penicillamine therapy had no significant effect on mortality ( RR 1.14 , 95 % CI 0.49 to 2.64 ) , liver transplantation ( RR 1.11 , 95 % CI 0.39 to 3.17 ) , hepatic histologic progression ( RR 1.17 , 95 % CI 0.79 to 1.74 ) , or cholangiographic
Result	D-penicillamine led to a significant improvement in the serum aspartate aminotransferase ( WMD -23.00 U/L ; 95 % CI -30.66 to -15.34 ) , but not in serum bilirubin level ( WMD 0.40 mg/L ; 95 % CI -0.19 to 0.99 ) and serum alkaline phosphatases activity ( WMD 44.00
Result	There were significantly more adverse events in patients receiving D-penicillamine ( P = 0.013 ) .
Result	There is not sufficient evidence to support or refute the use of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis .
Result	We do not recommend the use of D-penicillamine for patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis outside randomised trials .

Background	Our goal was to evaluate use of topical ( 4 percent ) formalin in management of radiation-induced hemorrhagic proctitis , refractory to other methods of treatment .
Background	Specifically , we wished to determine its safety , ability to stop bleeding , and complications associated with therapy .
Method	Sixteen patients with radiation-induced hemorrhagic proctitis were treated with topical ( 4 percent ) formalin .
Background	All had been previously treated with conservative regimens such as cautery , topical steroids , or laser , but these had failed .
Method	Five-hundred milliliters ( ml ) of a 4 percent formalin solution was instilled into the rectum in 50-ml aliquots .
Method	Each aliquot was kept in contact with rectal mucosa for approximately 30 seconds .
Method	Treatments were performed under local anesthesia in nine patients , sedation only in four , spinal in two , and general in one patient .
Result	In 12 patients , bleeding stopped after a single formalin instillation ; in 3 , bleeding was considerably reduced but continued sporadically .
Result	One patient required three treatments before bleeding stopped .
Result	Four patients developed postoperative anal pain , of which one also had significant tenesmus and reduced capacity .
Result	Of these four patients , only two had significant anal pain and fissures that lasted longer than one month .
Result	Topical ( 4 percent ) formalin is safe and effective in treatment of radiation-induced hemorrhagic proctitis .
Result	A single treatment will stop bleeding in 75 percent of patients .

Background	To determine the optimum menstrual cycle time to initiate a long-protocol gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist ( GnRH-a ) down-regulation regimen before hMG stimulation before IVF .
Method	Randomized , prospective , single , first cycle study .
Method	University teaching hospital .
Method	Eighty-six infertile couples undergoing IVF-ET attempt under rules for Ireland .
Method	Gonadotropin-releasing hormone agonist administered intranasally from day 1 or 21 of menstrual cycle .
Method	Human menopausal gonadotropin commenced when pituitary down-regulation was confirmed .
Method	Ovarian response , cancellation , fertilization , and pregnancy rates .
Result	No significant differences found between day 1 and day 21 initiation .
Result	But starting on day 1 is more easily recognizable by patients and avoids the possibility of administering GnRH-a in the presence of an unsuspected pregnancy .
Result	Both follicular and luteal phase initiation of GnRH-a long-protocol down-regulation are equally efficacious .
Result	In our clinical context , patients and management favor commencing on day 1 .

Background	On April 12 , 2000 , the Center for Reproductive Law and Policy ( CRLP ) , the Center for Justice and International Law and three Latin American women 's rights organizations filed a petition to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights alleging human right
Background	The petition alleges violations of the woman 's right to informed consent to medical treatment , as well as the rights to life , health , privacy and nondiscrimination .
Background	The initial petition was filed in 1999 following the death of a Peruvian woman from a rural area who underwent a sterilization procedure at a public health clinic .
Background	The woman agreed to a sterilization after being told that she was violating a national limit on family size by having more than 5 children and was at risk for prosecution by the government .
Background	The woman eventually died from complications and lack of proper treatment .
Background	Staff attorney Luisa Cabal is representing CRLP as a co-petitioner , with the assistance of fellow attorney Carla Avni.americasdelivery of health caredeveloping countrieshealthhealth serviceshuman rights -- womeninterest groupslatin americalitigationperupoli

Background	An estimated 5.3 million Americans are living with disabilities from traumatic brain injuries .
Background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) can cause a wide range of functional changes affecting thinking , emotions , and behaviors , or a combination of any of these .
Background	Reflecting on a self-care process for patients in TBI home rehabilitation programs becomes critical for nurses who desire to optimize patient functioning .
Background	As the young patients ' brain plasticity impacts adjustments to deficits and injury , applying the self-care process in the home setting provides a natural healing environment .
Background	As TBI survivors recognize and regulate their own behaviors , application of nursing actions dynamically match this change .

Background	We have used inexpensive off-the-shelf equipment for store-and-forward teledermatology and compared the precision and accuracy of digital image consultations with conventional , clinic-based consultations .
Method	Thirteen lesions were studied on 12 patients referred to a dermatology clinic for a suspected skin cancer .
Method	Patients were examined by two dermatologists .
Method	Subsequently , digital images were examined by two different dermatologists .
Result	There was almost complete agreement , both among and between the clinical and digital examiners , on different diagnosis and biopsy recommendations .
Result	Agreement on the single most likely diagnosis was also good .
Result	Digital imaging shows promise in teledermatology .

Background	Presacral region is one of the difficult regions for drainage of abscess as the approaches described for this carry a lot of morbidities .
Method	Transpedicular approach is described for the drainage of presacral abscess .
Result	Further , tuberculous abscess as a cause of cauda equina syndrome is reported .
Result	Patient had complete neurological recovery within weeks of drainage of abscess .
Result	Transpedicular drainage of presacral abscess is a safer option for recently developed neurological deficit .
Result	Late presentation may need anterior approach , which is associated with increased morbidity .

Background	From the knowledge of risk factors of epithelial ovarian cancer , we deduced a hypothesis that human seminal plasma ( HSP ) has a preventive role in the development of epithelial ovarian cancer .
Background	To examine whether HSP directly influences the growth of ovarian cancer , we have investigated the in vitro and in vivo effect of HSP on ovarian adenocarcinoma cell lines ( SK-OV-3 and OVCAR-3 ) in comparison with its effects on normal ovarian surface epithe
Method	Cell viability was determined by MTT assay .
Method	Cytotoxic effect was evaluated by flow cytometry analysis , by DNA laddering , and by morphological analysis .
Method	In vivo therapeutic effect of HSP was evaluated by the subcutaneous inoculation of SK-OV-3 cells in nude mice ( BALB-c ) model .
Result	HSP at a final concentration of 1:50 induced a time - and dose-dependent inhibition of SK-OV-3 and OVCAR-3 growth , whereas NOSE was not affected .
Result	Flow cytometric analysis , DNA laddering , and morphological analysis indicated that HSP induced necrosis , rather than apoptosis , of both ovarian carcinoma cell lines .
Result	In in vivo experiment that used the nude mice ( Balb-C ) with tumor inoculation of SK-OV-3 cells , HSP induced necrosis of tumor with no detectable toxic effects on the major organs .
Result	These results show that HSP inhibits the growth and induces the necrosis of epithelial ovarian cancer cells and suggests that one or more components of HSP may provide a scientific basis for preventing epithelial ovarian cancer .

Background	Spinal cord dorsal horn N-methyl-D-aspartate ( NMDA ) receptors have been implicated in central sensitization , enhanced responsiveness to peripheral stimuli following peripheral injury .
Background	Since hyperalgesia is a behavioral consequence of central sensitization , it should be attenuated at the level of the dorsal horn with NMDA receptor antagonists .
Background	However , responsiveness to thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia may be distinct , and have thus far not been directly compared in chronic inflammatory pain models .
Method	In the present study , inflammation was induced with complete Freund 's adjuvant ( CFA ) injected into the rat hind paw and NMDA receptor antagonists dizocilpine ( MK-801 ) or 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid ( AP-5 ) were intrathecally injected in rats to determi
Method	Locomotor tests and reflexes were also conducted to evaluate potential motor side effects .
Result	The NMDA receptor antagonists dose-dependently ameliorated mechanical hyperalgesia , but had marginal effects on thermal hyperalgesia .
Result	In ranges near antihyperalgesic doses , significant disruption of motor coordination was observed for both antagonists .
Result	These results suggest that , depending on the stimulus , NMDA receptors may have variable significance for central sensitization-mediated hyperalgesia , and that NMDA receptor antagonists may have therapeutic potential for some , but not all components in the

Background	To assess the prevalence of urinary incontinence in New Zealand women of European , Maori and Pacific Island descent aged 18 years and over .
Method	A questionnaire , designed to be self administered , was sent to a group of 1028 women selected at random from the electoral roll in central Wellington .
Method	Incontinence was defined as any involuntary loss of urine .
Method	If present , details were sought regarding the occurrence , type , and severity of the incontinence so that the prevalence and nature of the problem within ethnic groups could be determined .
Result	The prevalence for Maori women ( 46.8 % ) was significantly greater than for either Pacific Island ( 29.2 % ) or European women ( 31.2 % ) ( chi 2 = 14.02 , p = 0.001 ) .
Result	Increasing age , and parity were associated with increasing prevalence of incontinence for all ethnic groups .
Result	Of the incontinent women , 9 % were continually incontinent , 28 % once or more daily , and 37 % more than twice monthly .
Result	A further 26 % were incontinent less than twice monthly .
Result	The most reported type of incontinence was stress incontinence ( 48 % of incontinent women ) , with 27 % reporting urge incontinence , and 21 % a mixed picture of stress and urge .
Result	There was no significant difference in the frequency of these symptoms between the different ethnic groups .
Result	Fifty per cent of incontinent women reported wanting help for their urinary problems , but only one third had sought medical assistance , with many regarding incontinence as a normal occurrence .
Result	Urinary incontinence is common in New Zealand women irrespective of ethnic group .
Result	The low proportion of women seeking medical assistance emphasises the need for much greater awareness and public education of what is largely a treatable clinical problem .
Background	Urinary incontinence is estimated to affect more than one quarter of the female population .
Background	The prevalence varies according to different age groups , and although it is recognised that incontinence is more common in the elderly , a significant number are young with nearly 20 % of female children experiencing episodes of urinary leakage .
Background	The medical , personal and social impact of urinary incontinence is substantial , but surprisingly it is largely ignored , both by women with the condition , and by those providing health services to them such that it has been described as ` the hidden epidemi
Background	In New Zealand , research has been carried out on the prevalence of urinary incontinence and reasons for not seeking treatment in the European community , but the other major ethnic groups in New Zealand ( Maori and Pacific Island ) have not been investigated
Background	The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of urinary incontinence in these ethnic groups and to determine any differences to the prevalence of incontinence in European women in a similar socioeconomic environment .
Background	In addition , it was hoped to obtain some understanding of the attitudes of the women in each group to incontinence and their perception of the currently available treatments and medical services .

Method	A 26-year-old subfertile woman with a history of abortions at the 7-9th week was treated with Clomid , 50 mg for 5 days .
Result	A pregnancy resulted , which ended in the premature birth of a set of alive triplets that sex and blood-group determinations showed to be trizgotic .
Result	It is suggested that this production of a multiple ovulation in a woman with luteal deficiency be the result of excessive dosage of Clomid .

Background	Growing evidence supports a role for the immune system in the induction and maintenance of chronic pain .
Background	ATP is a key neurotransmitter in this process .
Background	Recent studies demonstrate that the glial ATP receptor , P2X7 , contributes to the modulation of pathological pain .
Method	To further delineate the endogenous mechanisms that are involved in P2X7-related antinociception , we utilized a selective P2X7 receptor antagonist , A-438079 , in a series of in vivo and in vitro experiments .
Method	Injection of A-438079 ( 10-300 micromol/kg , i.p. ) was anti-allodynic in three different rat models of neuropathic pain and it attenuated formalin-induced nocifensive behaviors .
Result	Using in vivo electrophysiology , A-438079 ( 80 micromol/kg , i.v. ) reduced noxious and innocuous evoked activity of different classes of spinal neurons ( low threshold , nociceptive specific , wide dynamic range ) in neuropathic rats .
Result	The effects of A-438079 on evoked firing were diminished or absent in sham rats .
Result	Spontaneous activity of all classes of spinal neurons was also significantly reduced by A-438079 in neuropathic but not sham rats .
Result	In vitro , A-438079 ( 1 microM ) blocked agonist-induced ( 2,3-O - ( 4-benzoylbenzoyl ) - ATP , 30 microM ) current in non-neuronal cells taken from the vicinity of the dorsal root ganglia .
Result	Furthermore , A-438079 dose-dependently ( 0.3-3 microM ) decreased the quantity of the cytokine , interleukin-1beta , released from peripheral macrophages .
Result	Thus , ATP , acting through the P2X7 receptor , exerts a wide-ranging influence on spinal neuronal activity following a chronic injury .
Result	Antagonism of the P2X7 receptor can in turn modulate central sensitization and produce antinociception in animal models of pathological pain .
Result	These effects are likely mediated through immuno-neural interactions that affect the release of endogenous cytokines .

Background	The review examined the historical progression and current status of pharmacotherapy of child and adolescent major affective disorder .
Method	A MEDLINE search was used to identify double-blind , placebo-controlled studies of child and adolescent major depression .
Method	Only studies that used reliable diagnostic and recovery parameters were included .
Result	Few well-designed studies have compared placebo and tricyclic antidepressants in the treatment of major depressive disorder in children and adolescents .
Result	However , results consistently suggest that tricyclic antidepressants are not efficacious .
Result	Early results of double-blind placebo-controlled trials with fluoxetine and paroxetine have shown a significant drug effect .
Result	However , the results are inconsistent , which could reflect the ways that response to medication is defined , the ways that rating scales measure recovery , and uncertainties of dosing strategies with second-generation antidepressants .
Result	Hypothesized reasons for the unique response pattern in youths include the changing hormonal status of children , the differential maturation of the noradrenergic versus serotonergic neurotransmitter systems , and the possibility that a large proportion of
Result	Tricyclic antidepressants are not superior to placebo for the treatment of child and adolescent major depressive disorder .
Result	Although two of three trials of second-generation antidepressants in this age group have had negative results , data suggest that these drugs may be more promising .
Result	It is too early in our investigation to know whether these agents will be effective in treating major depressive disorder in children and adolescents .

Background	Although a number of studies have shown that human impulsive traits are associated with indices of central serotonin function , few researchers have investigated the relationship between a polymorphism in the serotonin transporter gene-linked region ( 5-HTT
Method	We determined the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism in 123 employed Japanese male adults using the polymerase chain reaction .
Method	The distribution of allelic frequency was determined and also investigated the relationship of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism to a impulsive trait as measured by the Barratt Impulsiveness Scale , 11th version ( BIS-11 ) .
Result	The distribution of allelic frequency was found to be almost identical to that previously reported in Japanese ( the frequency for the long ( L ) / L , L/short ( S ) , and S/S genotypes was : 3 , 28 , and 68 % , respectively ) .
Result	In a comparison between the genotype groups , the S/S genotype group significantly higher scored for the total BIS-11 and the subscale attentional impulsiveness than the L/S + L/L genotype group .
Result	These findings suggest that individuals with a homozygous S-allele may be more impulsive than those with the other genotype .

Background	The increasing life expectancy after spinal cord injury has given social participation a new recognition as one of the ultimate goals of a comprehensive rehabilitation process .
Background	Recent evolution of the concept suggests 2 different approaches to document participation after spinal cord injury and a careful appraisal of the related outcome measures is important as discrepancies of results between the 2 approaches can be significant
Background	Literature on objective participation reports a large variability in several dimensions that are particularly influenced by intrinsic factors such as severity of injury and secondary impairments .
Background	The direct influence of the environmental factors remains to be demonstrated by empirical studies .
Background	There are fewer tools available to evaluate subjective impressions of participation but recent investigations support the importance of taking account of the person 's perceived restrictions participation in order to get better understandings of an individ
Background	The aim of this article is to present the evolution of the conceptualization and measurement of the two approaches and to describe the level of participation of individuals with SCI .

Method	A questionnaire was circulated to the 708 members of the Spinal Cord Injuries Association in 1976 .
Result	The response rate was 79.5 % .
Result	Over one half ( 51.4 % ) of the respondents suffered from shoulder pain , an incidence in excess of any age group in a control population derived from a general practitioner 's register .
Result	The pain , which was related particularly to wheelchair usage and other attendant factors such as transfers , was in some instances clearly in the shoulder , whereas in others it was more likely to be cervical root pain .

Method	A prospective and controlled study of perioperative use of combined local anesthetic and corticosteroid in lumbar disc surgery .
Background	The anti-inflammatory mechanism of corticosteroids is considered to be caused by the inhibition of phospholipase A2 , which plays an important role in the pain mechanism of lumbar disc problems .
Background	Although some authors have demonstrated that the use of intramuscular bupivacaine during lumbar discectomy resulted in a marked reduction of postoperative back pain , others have reported that the key intervention was probably the administration of epidura
Background	The coadministration of these two drugs in lumbar disc surgery for the relief of postoperative back pain has yet not been studied adequately .
Method	Assessment of the combined use of perioperative corticosteroids and bupivacaine for the relief of postoperative pain after lumbar disc surgery .
Method	Forty-four selected patients had acute-onset single-level unilateral herniated nucleus pulposus that were refractory to conservative management .
Method	All patients underwent lumbar disc surgery under standard general anesthesia .
Method	Before surgical incision , the skin and subcutaneous tissues were infiltrated with 10 mL of 1 % lidocaine with 1:200,000 adrenaline to produce local vasoconstriction .
Method	During wound closure , 20 mL 0.9 % saline in Group 1 ( n = 22 ) and 20 mL 0.25 % bupivacaine in Group 2 ( n = 22 ) were injected into the paravertebral muscles and subcutaneus tissues .
Method	In addition , a piece of autologous fat taken from the wound was first soaked in 40 mg of methylprednisolone for 10 minutes , then placed over the exposed nerve root , and the remaining steroid was flushed into the wound in Group 2 .
Method	The wound was closed after drug administration in both groups .
Method	In the postoperative period , all patients received 100 mg of meperidine intramuscularly when needed and were allowed to receive a second dose at least 4 hours later than the first dose for postoperative analgesia .
Method	Postoperative back pain intensity , heart rate , and mean arterial pressure were assessed 1 , 3 , 6 , and 12 hours after the conclusion of surgery .
Result	Visual analog scale pain scores for the postoperative recordings were lower in Group 2 than in Group 1 , but these findings were not statistically significant .
Result	Patients in Group 1 received 77.3 + / - 48.8 mg meperidine , and those in Group 2 received 31.8 + / - 45.5 mg meperidine , for pain medication in the first 12 hours ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Heart rate and mean arterial pressure were not significantly different between the two groups in all recording periods .
Result	It is concluded that the perioperative use of bupivacaine and corticosteroids during lumbar discectomy maintains effective postoperative analgesia and decreases opioid usage without complications .

Background	In considering the appropriate contraceptive method for a particular woman , the potential effect of that method on her risk of developing cancer of the breast , cervix , endometrium , or ovary is crucial .
Background	Among the most closely studied of the risk factors for gynecologic neoplasm has been the potential role of contraceptives , especially oral contraceptives , intrauterine devices , and injectable progestins .
Background	Physicians need to consider the potential impact of these agents on the disease process , therapy for the disease , future fertility , and the health of the fetus .
Background	Although much of the epidemiologic data is inconsistent and difficult to interpret , most studies find no association between oral contraceptive use and increased risk of breast cancer , except possibly in younger women ( < 45 years of age ) with prolonged
Background	Oral contraceptive use may also protect against benign breast disease .
Background	Data concerning oral contraceptive use and cervical neoplasm are confounded by several interacting variables , the most important of which is that oral contraceptive users tend to have more Papanicolaou smears than nonusers .
Background	Some studies have indicated an increased risk of two - to fourfold after 10 years of use .
Background	Oral contraceptive use provides clear protection against endometrial and ovarian cancer , an effect that persists for years after discontinuation .
Background	Less data have been collected regarding the relationship between intrauterine devices and injectable hormonal preparations and various types of cancer .
Background	No evidence suggests that the intrauterine device predisposes to the development of preneoplastic conditions of the cervix , nor to endometrial or ovarian cancer .
Background	A reliable form of contraception is indicated in women with cancer of any kind that may require chemotherapy or radiation , because these treatments can have adverse effects on the fetus , especially if given during the first trimester.age factors -- womename

Background	To study the effect of the presence of coarse granules in the perivitelline space ( PVS ) of oocytes on embryonic development , and on implantation and pregnancy rates in IVF .
Method	The study population included 24 patients treated during the period 1995-2000 .
Method	The majority or all of their oocytes exhibited repeatedly coarse granulation in the PVS .
Method	Clinical and laboratory cycle characteristics of their 65 IVF-ICSI cycles and the resulting implantation and pregnancy rates were compared to a matched control group of 65 IVF - ICSI cycles without granulation in the PVS .
Method	A total of 623 oocytes were retrieved , 418 oocytes fertilized , and 246 embryos were transferred in the study group .
Result	No difference was detected between the study and control group with regard to patients ' clinical data , IVF cycle characteristics , mean number of oocytes retrieved and fertilized , and mean number of embryos transferred .
Result	Only seven pregnancies were achieved in the study group , leading to pregnancy and implantation rates of 10.7 and 5.7 % , respectively .
Result	Pregnancy and implantation rates were significantly higher in the control group of matched IVF-ICSI cycles without granulation in the PVS ( 32.5 and 11.5 % , respectively ) .
Result	The presence of coarse granules in the PVS correlates with low implantation and pregnancy rates in IVF-ICSI cycles and might be regarded as a distinct entity , part of the yet poorly defined condition of `` egg factor infertility . ''

Method	To evaluate comparative outcome between adjuvant postoperative chemoradiotherapy ( postoperative CRT ) and lateral pelvic lymph node dissection ( LPLD ) following total mesorectal excision ( TME ) in rectal cancer patients .
Background	Although TME results in lower rate of locoregional recurrence compared with conventional surgery , these 2 treatment modalities following TME have not adequately been appraised until the present trend of preoperative chemoradiotherapy .
Method	Between 1995 and 2000 , patients with stage II and III rectal cancer underwent TME plus postoperative CRT ( n = 309 ) or LPLD ( n = 176 ) .
Method	Patients in the postoperative CRT group received 8 cycles of 5-fluorouracil plus leucovorin and 45 Gy pelvic radiotherapy .
Method	Patients in the LPLD group underwent lateral lymph node dissection outside the pelvic plexus .
Result	The 5-year overall and disease-free survival rates were 78.3 % and 67.3 % in the postoperative CRT group , respectively , and 73.9 % and 68.6 % in the LPLD group , respectively , without significant differences between these groups .
Result	Patients in the LPLD group with stage III lower rectal cancer had a locoregional recurrence rate 2.2-fold greater than those in the postoperative CRT group ( 16.7 % vs. 7.5 % , P = 0.044 ) .
Result	Multivariate analysis showed that APR and advanced T-category ( T4 ) were significantly associated with locoregional recurrence , whereas lymph node metastases , high preoperative serum carcinoembryonic antigen , and APR were significantly associated with shor
Result	Postoperative-CRT and LPLD following TME resulted in comparable survival rates , but the locoregional recurrence rate was higher in the LPLD group .
Result	These findings suggest that initial surgery is appropriate for rectal cancer patients who are candidates for low anterior resection without extensive local disease ( T1-T3 ) , regardless of lymph node status .

Background	Incorporation of fish oil into food products provides a means of increasing n-3 fatty acid intake , particularly in populations where fish consumption remains low .
Background	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the bioavailability of n-3 PUFA in microencapsulated fish-oil-enriched foods compared with an equal amount of n-3 PUFAs contained in fish oil capsules .
Method	Twenty-five healthy female volunteers were randomly assigned to one of two groups for the 4-week intervention : one group received 0.9 g of n-3 PUFA/day as fish oil capsule ( capsule group ) , while the second group ( food group ) received an equal amount of n -
Method	Baseline and post-intervention samples were analysed for platelet fatty acid composition .
Result	There was no significant difference in the change in platelet arachidonic acid ( AA ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) , or docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) between the two groups following the intervention .
Result	The results indicate that n-3 PUFA from microencapsulated fish-oil-enriched foods are as bioavailable as n-3 PUFA in a capsule .
Result	Fortification of foods with microencapsulated fish oil , therefore , offers an effective way of increasing n-3 PUFA intakes and status in line with current dietary recommendations .

Background	PURPOSE OF THE STUDY The surgical treatment of osteoporotic vertebral body fractures is associated with many complications .
Background	Vertebroplasty ( VP ) and kyphoplasty ( KP ) are minimally invasive procedures allowing us to strengthen the vertebral body and thus stabilize it .
Background	The aim of this non-randomized study is to evaluate a group of patients treated by VP and KP procedures and to discuss related risks .
Method	MATERIAL Between September 2005 and October 2007 , a total of 32 patients ( 37 vertebrae ) were treated by the VP and KP techniques .
Method	Vertebroplasty was used in 21 and kyphoplasty in 11 patients .
Method	In this initial group , four patients were excluded from evaluation because of a tumour aetiology of the fracture .
Method	The remaining 28 patients who had an osteoporotic vertebral body fracture verified by CT scan findings were followed up and evaluated .
Method	METHODS The evaluation was based on modified Oswestry disability index ( ODI ) and visual analogue scale ( VAS ) scores recorded at 6 weeks , 3 and 6 months and 1 year postoperatively .
Method	Cement leakage detected by X-ray was assessed by means of the classification used by Yeom et al. and , at the same time , the occurrence of adjacent vertebral fracture , if any , was detected by 1 year after surgery .
Result	RESULTS Radiographic cement leakage was found in eight patients ( 21.6 % ) , with clinical manifestation in two ( 5.4 % ) .
Result	One had an incomplete motor lesion due to cement leakage into the spinal column , and the other had pulmonary embolism due to cement leakage into the mediastinum .
Result	The whole group showed marked improvement in clinical condition , as assessed by the ODI .
Result	When expressed as per cent , the average ODI was 57 % pre - and 15.7 % post-operatively .
Result	All patients reported pain relief in the affected spine .
Result	The average VAS score of 8.1 pre-operatively decreased to an average of 2.6 post-operatively .
Result	There were no radiographic findings of adjacent vertebral body fracture .
Result	DISCUSSION Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are currently used to treat osteoporotic vertebral fracture .
Result	Their advantages include an immediate stabilization of the vertebra by cement solidification , possibility of percutaneous application under local anaesthesia , and early patient mobilization without any external fixation .
Result	However , when evaluating these techniques , safety of the surgical procedure should be taken into consideration .
Result	The most frequent risk is cement leakage .
Result	CONCLUSIONS Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty can , under strict adherence to the operative protocol , be an effective approach to the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral body fracture .
Result	It permits early mobilization of the patient without the necessity of external fixation .

Method	Functional changes were assessed in a group of 279 individuals with long-term spinal cord injuries .
Background	All had sustained their initial injuries 20 to 47 years ago and all had received initial and postinjury follow-up care at one of two British spinal cord injury treatment centers .
Result	Twenty-two percent reported that the need for physical assistance from others had increased over the years .
Result	Most ( 45 % ) needed additional help with transfers ; others needed more assistance with dressing , mobility , and toileting .
Result	When compared to those whose need for help had not increased , significant differences were found by age : as a group , and when separated by level and severity of injury , those needing more help were older , and those with cervical injuries needed help at yo
Result	Those needing more help also had significantly more reports of shoulder pain , fatigue and weakness , weight gain , and postural changes .
Result	They used more attendant care , and perceived their quality of life to be lower than those whose level of function had not changed over time .

Background	Subfoveal choroidal neovascular membranes ( CNV ) are a cause of significant visual impairment .
Background	Laser treatment of such lesions results in visual loss .
Background	Surgical excision of CNV may allow stabilisation or improvement of vision .
Background	A series of results of surgical excision are presented .
Method	The records for 43 eyes of 40 consecutive patients undergoing surgical excision of CNV not associated with age-related macular degeneration ( AMD ) were reviewed retrospectively .
Method	Statistical analyses of the relationship between pre-operative factors and post-operative visual results were made .
Method	Improvement or worsening of visual acuity was defined as a change of more than 2 lines of Snellen acuity .
Result	In 79.1 % of patients visual acuity was improved or unchanged following surgery , and in 20.9 % there was a reduction of Snellen acuity .
Result	There was no statistically significant association between visual outcome and age , gender , duration of visual symptoms , cause of CNV , presence of subretinal haemorrhage , elevation of retina by subretinal fluid , prior laser surgery , or the presence of pre -
Result	There was a possible association between the non-use of gas tamponade and an increased chance of reduced vision .
Result	Visual loss was more likely in those eyes with good pre-operative visual acuity .
Result	Recurrence of CNV was noted in 10 ( 23 % ) eyes ; repeat surgery was not associated with a worse visual outcome .
Result	Surgical excision of CNV not related to AMD is a promising technique .
Result	More meaningful assessment of visual function in these patients will allow refinement of case selection .

Background	Patients with cancer who have bone metastases may live for several years following diagnosis .
Background	However , skeletal disease significantly impacts quality of life , causing bone pain , pathologic fractures , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
Background	This program covered the challenges of treatment , new standards of care , advances in nursing , responsibilities in supportive care , and current trials investigating options for treatment-induced bone loss .
Background	The program ended with a call to nurses to become more active as patient advocates .

Background	The longitudinal course of children and adolescents with bipolar disorder ( BP ) is manifested by frequent changes in symptom polarity with a fluctuating course showing a dimensional continuum of bipolar symptom severity from subsyndromal to mood syndromes
Background	These rapid fluctuations in mood appear to be more accentuated than in adults with BP , and combined with the high rate of comorbid disorders and the child 's cognitive and emotional developmental stage , may explain the difficulties encountered diagnosing a
Background	Children and adolescents with early-onset , low socioeconomic status , subsyndromal mood symptoms , long duration of illness , rapid mood fluctuation , mixed presentations , psychosis , comorbid disorders , and family psychopathology appear to have worse longitud
Background	BP in children and adolescents is associated with high rates of hospitalizations , psychosis , suicidal behaviors , substance abuse , family and legal problems , as well as poor psychosocial functioning .
Background	These factors , in addition to the enduring and rapid changeability of symptoms of this illness from very early in life , and at crucial stages in their lives , deprive BP children of the opportunity for normal psychosocial development .
Background	Thus , early recognition and treatment of BP in children and adolescents is of utmost importance .

Background	In 1991 , a population-based epidemiologic traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) study was done in urban and rural areas of Taiwan ; this was 5 years before the helmet use law was passed and 8 years before the drink driving law was passed .
Method	In order to evaluate the impact of three major determinants ( time , geography , and legislation ) on the epidemiology of TBI , we conducted a prospective study in 2001 and used the 1991 data to examine the differences in TBI distribution in urban and rural Ta
Method	In 2001 , 5754 TBI cases were collected from the urban area of Taipei City , and 1474 TBI cases were collected from the rural area of Hualien County .
Result	The TBI incidence rate in Taipei City in 2001 was estimated to be 218/100 ,000 population ( 285/100 ,000 for males and 152/100 ,000 for females ) .
Result	When compared to the 1991 data , the incidence rate in 2001 had increased by 20 % .
Result	The TBI incidence rate in Hualien County in 2001 was estimated to be 417/100 ,000 population ( 516/100 ,000 for males and 306/100 ,000 for females ) ; this was a 37 % increase over the 1991 data .
Result	Our study found that the distribution of causes and age distribution had shifted significantly over the 10-year period .
Result	In 2001 , the age group with the highest incidence was 20-29 years , while in 1991 it had been the over 70 years age group .
Result	While traffic-related TBI had decreased , falls and assaults had increased in 2001 .
Result	We also found that legislation , such as the helmet law , affects TBI distribution by decreasing the traffic-related TBI rate , decreasing the admission severity of TBI , and reducing TBI-related mortality .
Result	Finally , geography plays a crucial role in the outcome of TBI ; over the 10 year period , Taipei had an increase in moderately severe outcomes , while Hualien had an increase in more severe outcomes .
Result	Comparative studies of TBI in urban and rural areas have shown that time , legislation , and geography are crucial determinants of TBI epidemiology .
Result	Although time and legal interventions seem to have more of an impact , geography does affect TBI outcomes .

Background	To examine the associations between reported intakes of dietary fat and incident type 2 diabetes .
Method	We studied the relation between dietary fatty acids and diabetes in a prospective cohort study of 35,988 older women who initially did not have diabetes .
Method	Diet was assessed with a food frequency questionnaire at baseline , and 1,890 incident cases of diabetes occurred during 11 years of follow-up .
Result	After adjusting for age , smoking , alcohol consumption , BMI , waist-to-hip ratio , physical activity , demographic factors , and dietary magnesium and cereal fiber , diabetes incidence was negatively associated with dietary polyunsaturated fatty acids , vegetabl
Result	After simultaneous adjustment for other dietary fat , only vegetable fat remained clearly related to diabetes risk .
Result	Relative risks across quintiles of vegetable fat intake were 1.00 , 0.90 , 0.87 , 0.84 , and 0.82 ( P = 0.02 ) .
Result	Diabetes risk was also inversely related to substituting polyunsaturated fatty acids for saturated fatty acids and positively correlated to the Keys dietary score .
Result	These data support an inverse relation between incident type 2 diabetes and vegetable fat and substituting polyunsaturated fatty acids for saturated fatty acids and cholesterol .

Method	The beneficial effects of ventral intermediate nucleus ( VIM ) stimulation were evaluated in 20 patients with tremor refractory to medical therapy .
Background	Thalamic stimulation is a non-ablative procedure which has the advantage of a reversible , non-destructive lesion .
Method	Eleven patients [ 7 with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and 4 with essential tremor ( ET ) ] received unilateral VIM implantation , while 9 patients had staged bilateral VIM implantation ( 4 with PD , 5 with ET ) .
Result	PD patients showed a significant improvement in contralateral arm and leg rest tremor and ipsilateral leg rest tremor ( p < 0.02 ) at a mean follow-up period of 16.2 + / - 7.0 months .
Result	Patients with PD did not demonstrate any significant decrease in medication use at follow-up .
Result	ET patients demonstrated significant improvement in postural and action tremor in the contralateral arm ( p < 0.001 ) , but no significant improvement in the contralateral leg tremor at follow-up .
Result	1 months .
Result	Deep brain stimulation is a safe and effective treatment for severe tremor refractory to medications .
Result	It is a highly effective , reversible , adaptable , and predictable procedure which avoids the complication of cognitive deficit seen in patients with bilateral thalamotomies .

Background	The frequency with which patients should attend for a dental check-up and the potential effects on oral health of altering recall intervals between check-ups have been the subject of ongoing international debate for almost 3 decades .
Background	Although recommendations regarding optimal recall intervals vary between countries and dental healthcare systems , 6-monthly dental check-ups have traditionally been advocated by general dental practitioners in many developed countries .
Method	To determine the beneficial and harmful effects of different fixed recall intervals ( for example 6 months versus 12 months ) for the following different types of dental check-up a ) clinical examination only ; b ) clinical examination plus scale and polish ; c ) clinical examination plus preventive advice ; d ) clinical examination plus preventive advice plus scale and polish .
Method	To determine the relative beneficial and harmful effects between any of these different types of dental check-up at the same fixed recall interval .
Method	To compare the beneficial and harmful effects of recall intervals based on clinicians ' assessment of patients ' disease risk with fixed recall intervals .
Method	To compare the beneficial and harmful effects of no recall interval/patient driven attendance ( which may be symptomatic ) with fixed recall intervals .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Oral Health Group Trials Register , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , MEDLINE and EMBASE .
Method	Reference lists from relevant articles were scanned and the authors of some papers were contacted to identify further trials and obtain additional information .
Method	Date of most recent searches 5th March 2007 .
Method	Trials were selected if they met the following criteria : design - random allocation of participants ; participants - all children and adults receiving dental check-ups in primary care settings , irrespective of their level of risk for oral disease ; interven
Method	In addition the following outcomes were considered where reported patient-centred outcomes , economic cost outcomes , other outcomes such as improvements in oral health knowledge and attitudes , harms , changes in dietary habits and any other oral health-related behavioural change .
Method	Information regarding methods , participants , interventions , outcome measures and results were independently extracted , in duplicate , by two review authors .
Method	Authors were contacted , where deemed necessary and where possible , for further details regarding study design and for data clarification .
Method	A quality assessment of the included trial was carried out .
Method	The Cochrane Collaboration 's statistical guidelines were followed .
Result	Only one study ( with 188 participants ) was included in this review and was assessed as having a high risk of bias .
Result	This study provided limited data for dental caries outcomes ( dmfs/DMFS increment ) and economic cost outcomes ( reported time taken to provide examinations and treatment ) .
Result	There is insufficient evidence from randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) to draw any conclusions regarding the potential beneficial and harmful effects of altering the recall interval between dental check-ups .
Result	There is insufficient evidence to support or refute the practice of encouraging patients to attend for dental check-ups at 6-monthly intervals .
Result	It is important that high quality RCTs are conducted for the outcomes listed in this review in order to address the objectives of this review .

Background	Injury to the spinal nerves of mice induces mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia .
Result	In the injured spinal cord , the expression of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA was increased , whereas it was decreased in N-type Ca ( 2 + ) - channel-deficient mice , in which neuropathic pain is eliminated .
Result	Intrathecal and intraperitoneal injection of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU486 produced antinociceptive effects , whereas intracerebroventricular injection was without effect .
Result	The more selective antagonist dexamethasone 21-mesylate suppressed both mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia .
Result	These results suggest that spinal glucocorticoid receptors play an important role in neuropathic pain , and that controlling the activity of glucocorticoid receptors may be of great importance in the treatment of neuropathic pain .

Background	This questionnaire study looked at the diagnostics tests and specimens used to screen for Chlamydia trachomatis in UK genitourinary medicine ( GUM ) clinics .
Method	Replies were received from 70 % ( 185/265 ) of clinics .
Result	Half used only one site to screen women .
Result	One-third took anal swabs from patients who had anal sex and 10 % took oropharyngeal swabs from patients who had oral sex .
Result	Immunoassays were used to screen men for chlamydia in 86 % of the clinics and women in 88 % .
Result	Only 60 % of male and 62 % of female immunoassays were supplemented by a second test .
Result	Six per cent of clinics used molecular technique ( MT ) to screen men and 4 % to screen women and 4 % were trying to acquire it .
Result	Culture was not available to 58 % of clinics .
Result	MT was not available to 81 % , 89 % of which was due to non provision locally and/or cost .
Result	Only 7 % of clinicians thought that using MT for screening was unnecessary .
Result	There were significant differences in the availability of the technique between large academic and small clinics .
Result	A national review of GUM strategies to screen for C. trachomatis with adequate funding is urgently needed .

Background	The vast majority of periventricular abnormalities visualized with MR imaging in patients less than 50 years old represents multiple sclerosis ( MS ) lesions .
Background	There are many other causes of periventricular lesions , most of which can be differentiated from MS on the basis of history and physical or MR findings .
Method	Five cases of biopsy - or Kveim test-proved sarcoidosis with MR findings consistent with MS are reported .
Result	Each of these patients , diagnosed as having sarcoidosis , had symptoms identical to those seen in MS.
Result	Although these patients have not had histologic characterization of the intraparenchymal lesions seen on MR , they illustrate the difficulty of differentiating sarcoidosis with CNS involvement from MS in some patients on the basis of clinical , radiographic
Result	This series contributes to a growing body of evidence that neurosarcoidosis probably should be included in the differential diagnosis of isolated periventricular lesions in patients less than 50 years old .

Background	To identify reports of randomized trials by handsearching 2 Bahrain medical journals , which are indexed in the biomedical database EMBASE and to determine any added value of the handsearching by comparing the reports found by handsearching with what would
Method	All issues of the Bahrain Medical Bulletin ( BMB ) ( 1979-2004 ) and the Journal of the Bahrain Medical Society ( JBMS ) ( 1989-2004 ) were handsearched in February 2005 for reports of RCTs or Controlled Clinical Trials ( CCTs ) , according to Cochrane eligibility criteria .
Method	Out of 395 articles in BMB we found reports of 12 RCTs and 4 CCTs .
Method	Distribution by country of corresponding author Jordan ( 4 RCTs , one CCT ) , Bahrain ( one RCT , one CCT ) , India ( 3 RCTs , one CCT ) , Kuwait ( one CCT ) , Saudi Arabia ( 2 RCTs ) , USA/Bahrain ( one RCT ) , and Oman ( one RCT ) ; and by specialty Anesthesia ( 8 ) , Surgery ( 1 ) Pediatrics ( 1 ) , Radiotherapy ( 1 ) , Community Medicine ( 1 ) , Sports Medicine ( 1 ) , Obstetrics/Gynecology ( 3 ) .
Method	The Journal of the Bahrain Medical Society included reports of 14 RCTs and 3 CCTs , out of 97 articles .
Method	Distribution by country of corresponding author Jordan ( 9 RCTs , 2 CCTs ) , Bahrain ( 3 RCTs ) , Egypt ( one RCT ) , Kuwait ( one RCT ) , and Saudi Arabia ( one RCT ) ; and by specialty Anesthesia ( 7 ) , General Surgery ( 3 ) , Obstetrics/Gynecology ( 1 ) , Radiotherapy ( 1 ) , Pediatrics ( 1 ) , Orthopaedic Surgery ( 1 ) , Education ( 1 ) Ear Nose and Throat ( 1 ) Ophthalmology ( 1 ) .
Result	Overall , of the 33 reports of trials found by handsearching both journals , only 23 were included in EMBASE of which only 6 had been indexed with the term RCT .
Result	Of the 23 reports of trials included in EMBASE , 16 had been identified in the Collaboration s systematic search of EMBASE .
Result	Two reports of trials could have been retrieved by this search but there was insufficient information in the title and abstract to code these as trials .
Method	The EMBASE records for the remaining 5 reports of trials did not contain terms currently used by The Cochrane Collaboration to identify reports of randomized trials in this database .
Result	The handsearching of these journals will help minimize publication bias by locating randomized trials not previously identified and , through their inclusion in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) in The Cochrane Library , will ensu

Background	Community pharmacists have increasing involvement in the self-management of minor illness as a result of the availability of a wider range of over-the-counter ( OTC ) medicines .
Method	We undertook a randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of educational strategies to implement evidence-based guidelines for the sale of OTC anti-fungals in the community pharmacy setting .
Method	The aim of the study was to compare the effectiveness and efficiency of two guideline dissemination strategies in community pharmacy settings .
Method	A 2 x 2 factorial , cluster RCT was conducted with 60 community pharmacies in the Grampian region of Scotland .
Method	The interventions included dissemination of an evidence-based guideline for OTC management of vulvovaginal candidiasis ( thrush ) by postal dissemination ( control ) , educational outreach visit or attendance at a continuing professional education session .
Method	Pre - and post-intervention simulated patient visits were made to participating pharmacies .
Method	The simulated patients completed assessment forms following each visit .
Method	The primary outcome was the appropriateness ( based upon the guidelines ) of sale or no sale of OTC anti-fungals .
Result	There were no significant differences in the proportion of appropriate outcomes following educational outreach [ odds ratio ( OR ) = 1.1 ; 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.52 to 2.45 ] or continuing professional education ( OR = 0.88 ; 95 % CI 0.41 to 1.91 ) .
Result	Neither strategy was effective in improving the appropriateness of OTC management of vulvovaginal candidiasis by community pharmacy staff .
Result	Further research is needed to identify barriers to guideline implementation and evidence-based practice in this setting .

Background	When treating the patient complaining of low back pain , the physical therapist may decide to support the lumbar spine through the temporary use of a lumbar orthosis .
Background	In severe cases ( generally involving fracture or instability ) the goal of orthosis application may be immobilization or significant limitation of movement .
Background	In less severe cases the goal is generally the reduction of spinal stress by the application of supportive pressure to the abdomen and by supporting a flexed , neutral , or extended position of the lumbar spine .
Background	A variety of orthoses is commercially available .
Background	These include rigid orthotics and body casts , various types of corsets , elastic binders with molded plastic inserts , and all-elastic binders .
Background	To date , however , we have not encountered a commercially available orthosis which provides abdominal support and lumbar positional support which can be varied by the patient in order to meet his changing biomechanical needs as he changes body position .

Background	The role of the vocational rehabilitation counselor in the rehabilitation process for individuals with TBI is explained .
Background	The specialized evaluation , team-orientation , and services involved are described .
Background	Eight areas involved in vocational evaluation are noted : social support , vocational/educational , independent living , medical , behavioral/psychosocial , financial , legal , and other areas .

Background	The application of motor imagery practice in the treatment of Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) is a novel treatment approach for improving motor function .
Method	The purpose of this study was to compare group treatment using a combination of physical and motor imagery practice with group treatment using only physical practice in subjects with PD .
Method	Of 23 patients with idiopathic PD , 12 received combined therapy , whereas 11 received physical therapy alone .
Method	Exercises for both groups were applied during 1-h sessions held twice a week for 12 weeks .
Method	Comparable motor tasks provided to both groups included callisthenic exercises , functional tasks , and relaxation exercises .
Method	However , the experimental group was treated with both imagery and real practice , whereas the control group received only physical exercises .
Method	Outcome measures included the time required to complete sequences of movements , the performance of balance tasks , impairment and functional scores on the Unified Parkinson 's Disease Rating Scale ( UPDRS ) , and specific cognitive abilities ( Stroop and clock drawing tests ) .
Result	Following the intervention , the combined treatment group exhibited significantly faster performance of movement sequences than the control group .
Result	In addition , the experimental subjects demonstrated higher gains in the mental and motor subsets of the UPDRS and in the cognitive tests .
Result	Both groups improved on the activities of daily living scale .
Result	The combination of motor imagery and real practice may be effective in the treatment of PD , especially for reducing bradykinesia .
Result	The implementation of this treatment regimen allows for the extension of practice time with negligible risk and low cost .

Background	The `` Standards , Options and Recommendations '' ( SOR ) project , started in 1993 , is a collaboration between the French National Federation of Comprehensive Cancer Centers ( FNCLCC ) , the 20 French Cancer Centers and specialists from French Public Univ
Background	The main objective is the development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health care and outcome of cancer patients .
Background	The methodology is based on literature review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts , with feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery .
Method	To define , according to the definitions of the Standards , Options and Recommendations project , the characteristics of the main tumor markers in colorectal cancer and their potential role in the management of patients with this malignancy .
Method	Data were identified by searching Medline and the personal reference lists of members of the expert groups .
Method	Once the guidelines were defined , the document was submitted for review to 117 independent reviewers , and to the medical committees of the 20 French Cancer Centers .
Result	The main recommendations for the tumor markers in colorectal cancer are : 1 ) The carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) is the reference serum marker ( standard ) .
Result	2 ) All the analyses for a given patient must be performed in the same laboratory , using the same technique ( standard , expert agreement ) .
Result	3 ) CEA or CA 19-9 should not be used for screening or diagnosis ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Method	4 )
Result	High initial serum concentration of CEA is of bad predictive value ( standard , level of evidence C ) .
Result	CEA is an independent prognostic factor of survival in colorectal cancers with lymph node metastases ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Result	5 ) CEA is the most sensitive biological parameter for the screening of hepatic metastases ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Result	6 ) CEA serum concentration before palliative chemotherapy is an independent prognostic factor of survival ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Result	The combination of CEA assay with imagery techniques and clinical examination can help monitor the response to palliative chemotherapy ( standard ) , in particular in non measurable disease ( standard , expert agreement ) .
Result	7 ) In 65 % of the cases , CEA is the first indicator of relapse ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Result	CEA is the choice marker for monitoring patients with colorectal cancer ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Method	8 )
Result	A sustained biological follow-up including CEA assay can be used to predict the operability of recurring tumors ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Result	Nevertheless , no survival advantage has been shown ( standard ) .

Background	The primary purpose of this study was to determine if , when confronted with a series of cervical videofluoroscopic ( VF ) studies , board certified radiologists who are trained in the interpretation of VF spinal examinations would be in agreement with one an
Background	As a secondary objective , we polled participating physicians regarding demographic issues such as time in practice , self-assessment of proficiency , the type of training received in VF interpretation and the number of VF studies read per year , in order to
Method	Seven patients who had been exposed to cervical acceleration/deceleration ( CAD ) trauma from motor vehicle accidents were randomly selected from the practice of two of the authors ( ACC and JSK ) .
Method	Three volunteers , who were asymptomatic and had no history of neck pain or injury to the neck , were also recruited .
Method	In all cases , informed consent was obtained in accordance with the Helsinki guidelines .
Method	Ten board qualified chiropractic radiologists were recruited to participate in this study .
Method	Blinded to the history and identity of the patients and volunteers , the participants were asked to view the 10 VF studies and , in each case , to report either `` normal , '' `` hypomobile '' or `` unable to determine '' for all segments from OCC/C1 through C7/T1 .
Method	The resulting data was analyzed for concordance using the kappa statistic .
Method	Kappa was calculated for all segments ( OCC-T1 ) for agreement in `` normal '' vs. `` abnormal '' motion .
Method	The two possible choices for abnormal ( i.e. , hypermobility and hypomobility ) were pooled together .
Method	We also compared the results of participants ' responses to demographic questions with the results of their interpretations of the VF studies .
Method	An urban group practice .
Method	Four of the patients were those of an orthopedist ( ACC ) and three were those of a general practitioner ( JSK ) .
Method	Seven patients were randomly selected from a larger group of patients satisfying our selection criteria .
Method	Patients were chosen who had been exposed to CAD trauma and had been provided with at least 6 months of conservative chiropractic care , yet remained symptomatic as a result of their injuries .
Method	All had evidence of intersegmental instability in the cervical spine as defined by other investigators and none had any history of injury or pain in the cervical spine prior to their motor vehicle accident .
Method	Four males and three females with a mean age of 16 yr comprised the patient group .
Method	Two asymptomatic atraumatic volunteers were males and one was female .
Method	They were age matched to the patient group with a mean age of 38 yr .
Method	This study did not entail any form of intervention .
Result	Our primary outcome measure was that of concordance or agreement between our group of 10 participant radiologists in regard to their interpretations of the 10 VF studies provided to them , i.e. , that of interinterpreter reliability .
Result	Higher values of kappa suggested that agreement between the radiologists was not likely due to chance alone .
Result	Our secondary outcome measure was a correlation between the results of our demographic questionnaires , completed by participating radiologists , and the overall interinterpreter reliability concordance .
Result	The hypothesis tested was that radiologists who have institutional training in VF , more years of experience , and those who read more VF studies annually and self-rank their proficiency as `` high '' are more likely to agree with others and/or are mo

Background	Inflammation appears to play a key role in the development of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) .
Background	In this study we examine factors involved in the regulation of inflammation and risk of CRC .
Method	Data from a multi-center case-control study of colon ( N = 1579 cases and N = 1977 controls ) and rectal ( N = 794 cases and N = 1005 controls ) cancer were used to evaluate the association between the rs1800795 and rs1800796 IL6 polymorphisms and CRC .
Method	We evaluated the joint effects of IL6 single nucleotide polymorphisms and regular use of aspirin/NSAIDs and vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) genotype .
Result	Having a C allele of the rs1800796 IL6 polymorphisms and the GG genotype of the rs1800795 IL6 polymorphisms was associated with a statistically significantly reduced the risk of colon ( OR 0.76 95 % CI 0.57 , 1.00 ) , but not rectal ( OR 1.49 95 % CI 1.02,2.16 )
Result	Both IL6 polymorphisms were associated with significant interaction with current use of aspirin/NSAIDs to alter risk of colon cancer : individuals with a C allele in either polymorphism who were current users of aspirin/NSAIDs had the lowest colon cancer r
Result	CRC risk also was associated with an interaction between VDR and IL6 genotypes that was modified by current use of aspirin/NSAIDs .
Result	This study provides further support for inflammation-related factors in the etiology of CRC .
Result	Other studies are needed to explore other genes in this and other inflammation-related pathways .

Background	Evaluating the impact of population-based rehabilitation interventions for work-related low back disorders ( WR-LBD ) requires job exposure factors to be considered as time-varying covariates .
Background	The role of job factors in recovery has not been well-established as most studies are based upon clinic samples , not working populations .
Background	This report represents the initial exploration of variables to be included in modeling job exposures as time-varying covariates of a study of work-place based rehabilitation intervention.METHODS : The study sample consisted of 162 hourly production employe
Method	Data reported herein were collected at baseline from an on-going large randomized clinical trial of rehabilitation for WR-LBD .
Result	Low back pain as measured by the North American Spine Society Baseline Form was examined in relation to : self-reported job factors from the Job Content Questionnaire and job risk category for low back disorder determined by the Lumbar Motion Monitor ( LMM )
Result	Low back pain was significantly ( p < 0.05 ) correlated with perceptions of : how hard the work was , how much physical effort was required , how hectic the job was , whether or not there was sufficient time to do the job , and how much concentration and phys

Background	To contrast single and double balloon-inflated kyphoplasty for vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) and evaluate its clinical efficacy .
Method	From May 2000 to May 2004 , 90 consecutive procedures were performed in 58 patients who suffered from painful vertebral compression fractures , transferring tumour and angioma .
Method	Ninety vertebrae were inflated while 62 as A group were double balloon and 28 as B group were single balloon , fracture reduction and bone cement augmentation .
Method	Preoperative and postoperative symptom levels , variables , complications were recorded and the vertebral height and Cobb angle were measured and analyzed .
Result	All patients ' pain was alleviated or disappeared without syndrome , and the vertebral height and Cobb angle of both groups were improved .
Result	The average recovery rate was 72.6 % ( 22.9 % approximately 100 % ) , Cobb angle from 17.9 degrees ( 3.1 degrees approximately 31.6 degrees ) were corrected to 9.6 degrees ( 0.6 degrees approximately 28.2 degrees ) , the average angle was 8.7 degrees ( 0.3 degrees
Result	The average recovery rate of A group was 77.6 % ( 55.3 % approximately 100 % ) , B group was 64.3 % ( 22.9 % approximately 100 % ) .
Result	The average postoperative Cobb angle of A group was 9.9 degrees ( 0.3 degrees approximately 27.2 degrees ) , B group was 8.6 degrees ( 0.6 degrees approximately 19.8 degrees ) ( P > 0.05 ) .
Result	As a promising minimally invasive surgery , balloon kyphoplasty can provide early relief of pain and improve the function as well as spinal alignment in treatment of painful compression fracture owing to recovering the vertebral height and Cobb angle of th
Result	Single balloon-inflated kyphoplasty can improve VCFs as double balloon .

Background	Surgery is still the cornerstone of curative treatment for rectal cancer .
Background	A combination of postoperative radiation and chemotherapy is the preferred adjuvant treatment for TNM stages II and III rectal cancer .
Background	Although studies combining 5-fluorouracil ( 5-FU ) and the investigational agent semustine ( methyl-CCNU ) with radiation showed some survival benefit , preliminary results of recent studies suggest that radiation with 5-FU alone is an effective substitute .
Background	Preoperative radiation treatment has several advantages over postoperative radiotherapy .
Background	The major disadvantage , that tumors may be downstaged , preventing exact evaluation of treatment results , may be overcome by using rectal ultrasound for preoperative staging .
Background	Another promising treatment is preoperative radiation combined with 5-FU as a radiosensitizer and for possible increased systemic effect .
Background	Studies are needed to find a better , less toxic radiosensitizer , to explore new chemotherapy combinations with 5-FU ( such as levamisole ) , and to define the proper dose sequence and integration .

Background	Fournier gangrene is a necrotizing fasciitis of the perineal and genital region resulting from polymicrobial infection in which infection spreads along fascial planes , causing soft-tissue necrosis .
Background	If surgical debridement and control of infection are delayed , the disease can progress and result in septic shock , multiorgan failure , and death .
Background	Initial symptoms are severe pain in the genital region followed by swelling and erythema .
Background	In patients with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , lack of pain sensation could cause delay in seeking medical attention .
Background	SCI patients are at higher risk for Fournier gangrene secondary to neurogenic bladder , neurogenic bowel , and impaired sensation .
Method	A literature search resulted in only 1 report of Fournier gangrene with localized necrosis of the scrotum in a patient with SCI .
Method	Case report of a 47-year-old man with C4 tetraplegia .
Result	Patient presented with a necrotic ulceration on the ventral aspect of the penis and scrotum of 2 days duration and was diagnosed with fulminant Fournier gangrene .
Result	Patients with SCI are at higher risk for Fournier gangrene secondary to neurogenic bladder , neurogenic bowel , and impaired sensation .
Result	Mortality is high .
Result	Prevention and early diagnosis are essential .
Result	Prompt aggressive intervention is warranted to maximize outcomes .

Background	Sleep apnoea syndrome is a frequent disease , occurring in men aged more than 30 years and in postmenopaused women .
Background	Its prevalence is more than 1 % in men and between 0,3 % -0,5 % in women .
Background	It is an important public health problem .
Background	Diagnosis is made by polysomnography , which is considered as a gold standard , or by polygraphy .
Result	Sleep apnoea syndrome must be looked for by clinicians in presence of symptoms such as sleepiness , snoring , or behavioural problems , because these patients have a high risk not only of driving crashes , but also of arterial hypertension , brain strokes , and

Background	The aim of the present study was to provide basic descriptive data regarding utilization of 12-month mental health services in the Japanese community population .
Method	Face-to-face household surveys were carried out in four areas ( two urban cities and two rural municipalities ) , and a total of 1663 persons participated ( overall response rate : 56.4 % ) .
Background	For data collection , the structured psychiatric interview , World Mental Health version of the World Health Organization Composite International Diagnostic Interview ( WMH-CIDI ) was used , allowing DSM-IV diagnoses , severity , and service utilization .
Result	It was found that 7.3 % of total respondents had received any service , either professional or non-professional , in the past 12 months , including 20.0 % of those with 12-month DSM-IV disorders and 6.2 % of those without .
Method	Thirty-three percent of those with any mood disorder used any service , and 26.8 % of those used some type of health care .
Result	The probability of people with 13-15 years of education receiving mental health treatment was fourfold higher than those with > or = 16 years of education .
Method	Gender , age , or income were not found to contribute to utilization of mental health services .
Result	The results confirm that the majority of people with a recent psychiatric disorder have not used mental health care or other support systems .
Result	The mental health care system in Japan has improved over the past decade , but not enough for people suffering from mental disturbances .

Background	We have recently reported a chronic allodynialike symptom in rats after ischemic spinal cord injury .
Background	This pain-related behavior is resistant to a number of pharmacologic treatments , including morphine , clonidine , carbamazepine , baclofen , and muscimol .
Result	In the present report , we present evidence indicating that systemic mexiletine , a local anesthetic and antiarrhythmic agent , effectively relieves the allodynia-like symptoms at doses of 15 and 30 mg/kg in these rats without inducing major side effects .
Result	It is suggested that systemically applied mexiletine may be useful in treating central pain in patients with spinal cord injury .

Background	Generalized and specific social phobias are common , chronic , and potentially debilitating conditions .
Background	In recent years , there have been major advances in the pharmacotherapy of social phobia ; efficacy has become better established for a diverse group of medications .
Background	Controlled studies have shown substantial benefit from monamine oxidase inhibitors , both irreversible ( phenelzine ) and reversible ( brofaromine and moclobemide ) .
Background	The serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor antidepressants have shown promise in case reports , uncontrolled studies , and double-blind trials ( fluvoxamine and sertraline ) .
Background	The benzodiazepines have been extensively used to treat social phobia , although only recently has a controlled , double-blind study confirmed efficacy ( clonazepam ) .
Background	The beta-adrenergic receptor blockers have been widely used on an as needed basis to treat specific social phobia ( i.e. , performance anxiety ) , although their value in generalized social phobia has not been convincing .
Background	Finally , pharmacologic approaches to social phobia must take into consideration the common coexistence of other psychiatric conditions .

Method	The effect of different keeping conditions on body weight gain was studied in 200 male Fzt : DU mice between days 21 and 70 of life .
Method	The animals were divided in four different housing groups : DU-B ( housing in stress cages ) , DU-B + HI ( housing in stress cages and afterwards in standard cages type HI ) , DU-HI ( housing in standard cages type HI ) and DU-S + AP ( housing in standard group cages ) .
Result	Housing in stress cages resulted in lower body weight gain at every age ; subsequent housing in standard cages type HI for one week failed to compensate this effects .
Result	Likewise , keeping of four mice in standard cages type I ( DU-HI ) between days 42 and 70 of life also resulted in delayed body weight gain .
Result	It is possible that the chosen population density was not an optimum for normal weight gain during the adult life .
Result	Animals kept in standard stocking cages ( DU-S + AP ) had the highest body weight gain .

Background	Antigens associated with ovarian cancer tissue have been identified by the use of heteroantisera .
Background	It has also been reported that lymphocytes from patients with ovarian cancer responded to phytohemagglutinin ( PHA ) and keyhole-limpet hemocyanin ( KLH ) but had failed to respond to autologous tumor extracts .
Method	In our series , pretreatment sera from 37 patients with stage III and IV ovarian cancer failed to react with ovarian cancer antigen preparations .
Result	After therapy , serum from only three patients was reactive : all three patients were treated by chemoimmunotherapy .
Result	Preliminary data from this clinical trial for treating stage III and IV ovarian cancer with chemotherapy , immunotherapy , or combined chemoimmunotherapy show that survival of patients treated by chemotherapy or immunotherapy corresponded to that of nonresp
Result	Interestingly , combined chemoimmunotherapy produced a survival curve depicting significant improvement , similar to that for the responders to L-PAM therapy reported in that study .

Background	In this study we investigated the output of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances ( TBARS ) and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , as thiobarbituric acid ( TBA ) - MDA adduct , in the urine from subjects eating a diet in which the only source of n-3 long-chain , polyunsatu
Method	Nine healthy men , ages 30-65 , were confined in the United States Department of Agriculture Western Human Nutrition Research Center , San Francisco , CA , for 100 d ; food intake and exercise levels were controlled .
Method	All subjects were placed on a stabilization diet ( StD ) for 20 d , then six were fed the salmon diet for 40 d.
Method	The others remained on the StD .
Method	The groups switched diets for the last 40 d.
Method	Both diets were isocaloric ( 16 % protein , 54 % CHO and 30 % fat by energy % ) .
Method	The salmon diet contained 7.5 % of calories from n-6 fatty acids ( FAs ) and 2 % from n-3 FAs , primarily eicosapentaenoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid in a 5060 ratio , while the StD contained 7.5 % from n-6 FAs and < 0.3 % n-3 FAs ( with presumably no significant amounts of C20 or C22 n-3 FAs ) .
Method	Twenty-four hour urinary output was collected , and 2 % 3-d pool samples prepared for analysis of urinary TBARS and the TBA-MDA adduct .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Method	The self-awareness of brain injured patients in an acute inpatient rehabilitation programme was measured using the Functional Self-Appraisal Scale ( FSAS ) , which compares patient and staff ratings of patient performance on tasks relevant for acute rehabili
Result	There was a significant difference between patients ' and staffs ratings near admission , consistent with previous findings in post-acute settings that brain injured patients tend to overestimate their abilities relative to other raters .
Result	Patient and staff ratings tended to converge at time of discharge , likely reflecting patients ' improvements on rehabilitation tasks rather than increased self-awareness .
Result	The average difference between patients ' and staffs ratings did not correlate with neuropsychological functioning on admission , supporting evidence that self-awareness early in the recovery process is a unique construct .
Result	Future research is outlined , including investigating the relationship of early levels of self-awareness following TBI to functional outcome .

Background	The community integration questionnaire ( CIQ ) was designed to assess home integration , social integration and productive activity in persons with acquired brain injury .
Background	The instrument consists of 15 items and can be completed by self report or with the assistance of a family member or caregiver familiar with the person 's health status and social activities .
Background	Previous research has demonstrated adequate test-retest reliability and internal consistency .
Background	This study was designed to examine further , the psychometric characteristics of the CIQ and begin the process of establishing the instrument 's validity .
Method	The CIQ was administered to 341 persons with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) and 210 persons without TBI or any other apparent disabilities .
Result	The results indicate that the total scores are normally distributed for both persons with and without TBI .
Result	A statistically significant difference ( P < 0.01 ) was found between subjects with TBI and those without TBI for all three subscales of the CIQ and for total scores .
Result	Data analysis also revealed that the total CIQ scores statistically differentiated among subjects with TBI living in three different settings : ( 1 ) living independently ; ( 2 ) living in a supported community situation and ( 3 ) living in an institution .
Result	Intercorrelations among the three subscales ( home , social and productivity ) demonstrated that the CIQ provides unique information in the assessment of community integration for persons with TBI .
Result	Areas of future research necessary to expand the research and program evaluation usefulness of the CIQ are identified .

Background	Health disparities among racial and ethnic groups have a long history and continue to exist in the United States .
Background	The U.S. government has established as a goal for the year 2010 the elimination of racial/ethnic health differences in six areas .
Background	This article examines disparities in one of those areas : access to high-quality health care .
Background	Several measures of access to and use of health care services are studied both nationally and in 13 diverse states .
Result	The authors find that both the magnitude of racial and ethnic disparity and the reasons behind it depend significantly on the state , the ethnic group , and the type of outcome measure being studied .
Result	Such information can be valuable for state and national policy makers in targeting resources and in designing effective strategies for the elimination of racial and ethnic disparities .

Background	A chronic minor imbalance between energy intake and energy expenditure may lead to obesity .
Background	Both lean and obese subjects eventually reach energy balance and their body weight regulation implies that the adipose tissue mass is `` sensed '' , leading to appropriate responses of energy intake and energy expenditure .
Background	The cloning of the ob gene and the identification of its encoded protein , leptin , have provided a system signaling the amount of adipose energy stores to the brain .
Background	Leptin , a hormone secreted by fat cells , acts in rodents via hypothalamic receptors to inhibit feeding and increase thermogenesis .
Background	A feedback regulatory loop with three distinct steps has been identified : ( 1 ) a sensor ( leptin production by adipose cells ) monitors the size of the adipose tissue mass ; ( 2 ) hypothalamic centers receive and integrate the intensity of the leptin signal thr
Background	While this feedback regulatory loop is well established in rodents , there are many unsolved questions about its applicability to body weight regulation in humans .
Background	The rate of leptin production is related to adiposity , but a large portion of the interindividual variability in plasma leptin concentration is independent of body fatness .
Background	Gender is an important factor determining plasma leptin , with women having markedly higher leptin concentrations than men for any given degree of fat mass .
Background	The ob mRNA expression is also upregulated by glucocorticoids , whereas stimulation of the sympathetic nervous system results in its inhibition .
Background	Furthermore , leptin is not a satiety factor in humans because changes in food intake do not induce short-term increases in plasma leptin levels .
Background	After its binding to LRb in the hypothalamus , leptin stimulates a specific signaling cascade that results in the inhibition of several orexigenic neuropeptides , while stimulating several anorexigenic peptides .
Background	The orexigenic neuropeptides that are downregulated by leptin are NPY ( neuropeptide Y ) , MCH ( melanin-concentrating hormone ) , orexins , and AGRP ( agouti-related peptide ) .
Background	The anorexigenic neuropeptides that are upregulated by leptin are alpha-MSH ( alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone ) , which acts on MC4R ( melanocortin-4 receptor ) ; CART ( cocaine and amphetamine-regulated transcript ) ; and CRH ( corticotropin-releasing-hormone
Background	Obese humans have high plasma leptin concentrations related to the size of adipose tissue , but this elevated leptin signal does not induce the expected responses ( i.e. , a reduction in food intake and an increase in energy expenditure ) .
Background	This suggests that obese humans are resistant to the effects of endogenous leptin .
Background	This resistance is also shown by the lack of effect of exogenous leptin administration to induce weight loss in obese patients .
Background	The mechanisms that may account for leptin resistance in human obesity include a limitation of the blood-brain-barrier transport system for leptin and an inhibition of the leptin signaling pathways in leptin-responsive hypothalamic neurons .
Background	During periods of energy deficit , the fall in leptin plasma levels exceeds the rate at which fat stores are decreased .
Background	Reduction of the leptin signal induces several neuroendocrine responses that tend to limit weight loss , such as hunger , food-seeking behavior , and suppression of plasma thyroid hormone levels .
Background	Conversely , it is unlikely that leptin has evolved to prevent obesity when plenty of palatable foods are available because the elevated plasma leptin levels resulting from the increased adipose tissue mass do not prevent the development of obesity .
Result	In conclusion , in humans , the leptin signaling system appears to be mainly involved in maintenance of adequate energy stores for survival during periods of energy deficit .
Result	Its role in the etiology of human obesity is only demonstrated in the very rare situations of absence of the leptin signal ( mutations of the leptin gene or of the leptin receptor gene ) , which produces an internal perception of starvation and results in a

Method	A large prospective longitudinal cohort study ( n = 1204 ) to identify prevalence of new or recurrent injury and risk factors in a rehabilitated chronic disabling spinal disorder patient group with matched control subjects .
Background	To evaluate prevalence and risk factors for new or recurrent injury on a chronic disabling spinal disorder population .
Background	The rate of symptom recurrence after acute low back pain , like the rate of initial back pain episodes , is extremely high ( 40-70 % ) .
Background	However , although the incidence of recurrent back pain after chronic disabling spinal disorder represents a small subcomponent of these cases , there is a large socioeconomic impact .
Background	An individual attempting to return to work after a chronic disabling spinal disorder episode usually bears a stigma of `` high risk '' for recurrent injury and related work disability that may result in barriers to reemployment or work retention .
Background	Before the present research , no large scale studies had been conducted to evaluate whether recurrent spine injuries or new injuries to other musculoskeletal areas could be prevented by medical treatment .
Background	In addition , no studies had emerged to evaluate physical and psychologic risk factors of injury recurrence in this context to facilitate design of prevention programs .
Method	The present study assessed the incidence of claimed recurrent spinal and new musculoskeletal injuries in a population of 1204 workers .
Method	A subgroup of 5.3 % ( n = 64 ) of treated patients with a new injury claim in the ensuing 12 months was matched for gender , age , race , length of disability , workers ' compensation venue , previous surgery , and litigation status to an identically sized control group who did not report new or recurrent injuries .
Method	Demographic , physical , and psychologic measures were obtained prospectively on all patients , before and after treatment , to be analyzed as risk factors .
Result	During the year after treatment , 1.3 % ( n = 16 ) of patients reported another injury to the same spinal area , with only a 0.9 % ( n = 11 ) recurrent disability rate .
Result	A new injury to a different musculoskeletal area was reported by 4.0 % ( n = 48 ) of patients .
Result	Only 3.4 % of the whole cohort , or 64.1 % ( n = 41 ) of the sample reporting reinjuries after returning to work , experienced lost work time ( i.e. , disability ) after the reinjury .
Result	Only a modest predictive association was found between risk for new or recurrent injury and two self-report indices .
Result	The present study suggests that even a sample of the most severe chronic disabling spinal disorder workers ' compensation patients who complete a tertiary functional restoration program are at relatively low risk for either a recurrent spinal disorder or n
Result	No major physical or psychologic risk factors for recurrent injury could be identified in this large cohort .
Result	These findings argue powerfully against employer bias in not rehiring employees with previous chronic disabling spinal disorder or discriminating in pre - or reemployment on the basis of putative reinjury risk factors after an appropriate rehabilitation pr
Result	Literature review documents a surprising paucity of quality studies examining variables predictive of this important socioeconomic outcome variable .

Background	Severe pain occurs in 5-30 % of the spinal cord-injured ( SCI ) population and is difficult to treat .
Background	Subarachnoid lidocaine has been used in selected patients with some success .
Background	Mexiletine , an analog of lidocaine that acts at Na + / K + channels in the peripheral nerve , has been found effective in persons with diabetic dysesthetic neuropathy .
Background	The effect of mexiletine in the treatment of spinal cord dysesthetic pain was examined in this study .
Method	Fifteen patients were enrolled , and 11 patients completed the prospective , randomized , placebo-controlled , double-blind , crossover design trial .
Method	Inclusion/exclusion criteria were carefully defined .
Method	A 1-wk washout period was followed by a 4-wk drug trial of either mexiletine ( 450 mg/day ) or placebo .
Method	This was repeated for the second medication in the second arm of the study .
Method	Patients were followed weekly with McGill and visual analog pain scales .
Method	Baseline , midpoint , and endpoint Barthel function scores were recorded .
Method	The Wilcoxon 's signed-rank test and paired t test were used for statistical analysis .
Result	Results showed no significant effect of mexiletine on SCI dysesthetic pain scales or Barthel index .
Result	In conclusion , in this trial , mexiletine did not appear to decrease spinal cord injury-related dysesthetic pain .

Background	The Cochrane Library of Systematic Reviews is published quarterly .
Background	It now contains 3094 complete reviews , 1707 protocols for reviews in production and 6817 one page summaries of systematic reviews published in the general medical literature .
Method	In addition there are citations of 495,000 randomized controlled trials , and 9458 cited papers in the Cochrane methodology register .
Background	The health technology assessment database contains 6817 citations .
Background	This edition of the Library contains 97 new reviews of which 9 have potential relevance for practitioners in pain and palliative medicine .

Background	Several epidemiological surveys have suggested that an alteration in the habitual intake of the type rather than the amount of dietary fat may offer a nutritional means for a reduction in mortality from severe cardiac arrhythmia which can not be achieved a
Background	We have examined this possibility in a series of long-term feeding studies with the small non-human primate marmoset monkey Callithrix jacchus .
Result	In both in vitro and in vivo studies of the mechanical performance of cardiac muscle we have found that diets rich in saturated fatty acids promote arrhythmia when the heart is subjected to pharmacological or ischemic stress .
Result	Conversely , diets enriched in either omega-6 or omega-3 PUFA are beneficial , reducing the vulnerability to pharmacologically induced dysrhythmia in vitro or ischemic arrhythmia in vivo .
Result	In addition , PUFA enriched diets enhance myocardial performance ( left ventricular ejection fraction and end diastolic volume ) and raise the electrical threshold at which ventricular fibrillation can be induced .
Result	These diet-induced changes in cardiac performance are accompanied by significant alterations in the PUFA composition of cardiac muscle membranes , and the subsequent production of myocardial eicosanoids .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	In Bolivia , 50 % of pregnant women experience pregnancy and childbirth without any medical attention .
Background	Bolivia has the highest rate of maternal mortality in South America .
Background	Family planning programs not only teach women about the benefits of spacing children several years apart , breast feeding , good nutrition , prenatal and postpartum visits , and safe deliveries , they also reduce the incidence of abortion , help to alleviate po
Method	The government , nongovernmental organizations , and the medical community therefore joined forces to launch a nationwide family planning campaign in Bolivia .
Method	The US Agency for International Development has provided Bolivia with financial and technical assistance to establish a network of primary health care clinics .
Background	The author , US First Lady , visited one of the clinics during her trip to participate in the Sixth Conference of Wives of Heads of State and Government of the Americas .
Background	The US Congress recently slashed funds for international family planning program assistance by 35 % and added restrictions on the delivery schedule of aid for the first 9 months of the fiscal year .
Background	Similarly harsh cuts and delays are included in the current budget .
Background	A recent analysis by five population organizations found that these funding cuts will result in 1.6 million more abortions , more than 8000 maternal deaths , and 134,000 infant deaths in developing countries .
Background	Policymakers must be made to understand that family planning campaigns in operation in Bolivia and elsewhere are sensible , cost-effective , and long-term strategies for improving women 's health , strengthening families , and lowering abortion rates.americasb

Background	Motoneuron damage occurs in spinal cord injury and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis .
Background	Current advances offer hope that human embryonic stem cells [ Science 282 ( 1998 ) 1145 ] or neural stem cells ( NSC ) [ Exp Neurol 161 ( 2000 ) 67 ; Exp Neurol 158 ( 1999 ) 265 ; J Neurosci Methods 85 ( 1998 ) 141 ; Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 97 ( 2000 ) 14720 ; Exp Neurol 156
Background	Previously , we developed a priming procedure that produced cholinergic cells that resemble motoneurons from human NSCs grafted into adult rat spinal cord [ Nat Neurosci 5 ( 2002a ) 1271 ] .
Background	However , effective replacement therapy will ultimately rely on successful connection of new motoneurons with their muscle targets .
Method	In this study , we examined the potential of human fetal NSC transplantation to replace lost motoneurons in an animal model of chronic motoneuron deficiency ( newborn sciatic axotomy ) [ J Comp Neurol 224 ( 1984 ) 252 ; J Neurobiol 23 ( 1992 ) 1231 ] .
Result	We found , for the first time , that human neural stem cell-derived motoneurons send axons that pass through ventral root and sciatic nerve to form neuromuscular junctions with their peripheral muscle targets .
Result	Furthermore , this new cholinergic innervation correlates with partial improvement of motor function .

Background	Stage IV non-small cell lung cancer is a fatal disease , with a median survival of 14 months .
Background	Systemic chemotherapy is the most common approach .
Background	However the impact in overall survival and quality of life still a controversy .
Method	To determine differences in overall survival and quality of life among patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer non-metastatic to the brain treated with best supportive care versus systemic chemotherapy .
Method	From February 1990 through December 1995 , 78 eligible patients were admitted with the diagnosis of stage IV non-small cell lung cancer .
Method	Patients were divided in 2 groups
Method	Group A ( n = 31 - treated with best supportive care ) , and Group B ( n = 47 - treated with systemic chemotherapy ) .
Result	The median survival time was 23 weeks ( range 5 - 153 weeks ) in Group A and 55 weeks ( range 7.4 - 213 weeks ) in Group B ( p = 0.0018 ) .
Result	In both groups , the incidence of admission for IV antibiotics and need of blood transfusions were similar .
Result	Patients receiving systemic chemotherapy were also stratified into those receiving mytomycin , vinblastin , and cisplatinum , n = 25 and those receiving other combination regimens ( platinum derivatives associated with other drugs , n = 22 ) .
Result	Patients receiving mytomycin , vinblastin , and cisplatinum , n = 25 had a higher incidence of febrile neutropenia and had their cycles delayed for longer periods of time than the other group .
Result	These patients also had a shorter median survival time ( 51 versus 66 weeks , p = 0.005 ) .
Result	In patients with stage IV non-small cell lung cancer , non-metastatic to the brain , chemotherapy significantly increases survival compared with best supportive care .

Background	Patients with transmurally invasive , lymph node negative colorectal carcinoma ( Dukes ' B ) have a 5-year survival rate ranging from 53.9 % to 84.9 % .
Background	The authors postulate that patients with Dukes ' B colon cancer who die of their disease have occult micrometastases in their pericolic lymph nodes at the time of original diagnosis .
Background	In an attempt to identify these occult micrometastases , pericolic lymph nodes from Dukes ' B colon cancer resections were stained retrospectively with antibodies against cytokeratin ( anti-keratin AE1/AE3 , Boehringer Mannheim , Indianapolis , IN ) and CC49 ( a
Method	The results were analyzed by univariate and multivariate analysis .
Result	Fifty cases with 568 lymph nodes ( 11.3 per case ) were examined with each antibody using standard immunoperoxidase techniques .
Result	Positive staining for cytokeratin was seen in 14 patients ( 33 lymph nodes ) , 6 of whom died of colon cancer within 66 months ( 43 % ) .
Result	Only 1 of the 36 patients with cytokeratin-negative lymph nodes died of colon cancer over the same time period ( 3 % , P = 0.0009 univariate , P = 0.0013 multivariate ) .
Result	There was no significant difference in survival between the CC49-positive and CC49-negative groups .
Result	Immunoperoxidase techniques are capable of identifying micrometastatic disease in lymph nodes missed by routine hematoxylin and eosin staining .
Result	Further , the presence of cytokeratin-positive cells within lymph nodes correlated with a significantly poorer prognosis .
Result	Therefore , cytokeratin staining of pericolic lymph nodes in patients with Dukes ' B colorectal cancer is recommended .
Result	Larger multicenter studies are needed , however , to confirm these results and to evaluate the appropriateness of adjuvant chemotherapy in patients whose disease is upstaged by immunohistochemical staining .

Background	To establish ( 1 ) whether associated reactions could contribute to contracture formation and ( 2 ) whether the presence of spasticity was essential for their expression , after stroke .
Method	Subjects were 24 hemiparetics within 13 months of a stroke , unselected for contracture or spasticity .
Method	Associated reactions were identified by the presence of muscle activity in the affected biceps brachii and quantified as the amount of affected elbow flexor torque produced during a moderate contraction of either the contralateral biceps brachii or the contralateral quadriceps muscles .
Method	Contracture was measured as loss of elbow joint range of motion and spasticity as the presence of abnormal reflex activity .
Result	Associated reactions were present in at least one testing condition in seven subjects .
Result	During contractions of the contralateral biceps brachii , the median amount of elbow flexor torque produced was 0.39 ( interquartile range , IQR 2.5 ) Nm while during contractions of the contralateral quadriceps muscle it was 0.19 ( IQR 1.6 ) Nm .
Result	Associated reactions were not associated with contracture ( p = 0.39 ) which was present in over half of the subjects .
Result	The incidence of associated reactions was about the same as that of spasticity , but the two were not related ( p = 0.61 ) .
Result	Even though associated reactions were present in 29 % of the subjects during moderate contraction of the contralateral muscles , they were not large , nor were they associated with contracture or spasticity , suggesting that this phenomenon is not usually a m

Background	This is the first report of delayed cervical epidural hemorrhage caused by an onlay silastic graft placed over the dura after laminectomy .
Background	There are several reports of intracranial hemorrhage associated with silastic implants in the literature .
Background	A 49-year-old woman suddenly developed severe neck pain and quadriplegia during sexual intercourse .
Background	A C5-C7 laminectomy had been performed 17 years earlier for cervical stenosis .
Method	Magnetic resonance imaging showed an epidural mass compressing the cord at the level of the previous laminectomy .
Method	Laminectomy was performed within 5 hours of symptom onset .
Method	Postoperatively , the patient regained leg strength .
Method	After 2 months of physical therapy , she had minimal residual leg rigidity and returned to work .
Method	At surgery , the cervical cord was compressed by a solid fibrous scar surrounding a silastic onlay graft and the dura .
Method	An epidural hematoma was beneath the silastic implant .
Method	The dense scar tissue , hematoma , and silastic implant were removed .
Result	Bleeding associated with silastic sheets starts with movement of this nonadherent implant .
Result	The movement disrupts the underlying fine vessels on the surface of an encasing connective tissue membrane .
Result	Overgrowth of this membrane can cause mass effect and simulate a tumor , even without associated bleeding , within weeks .
Result	Delayed hemorrhage is more common .
Result	We recommend removal of these implants electively , especially if a thick membrane surrounding the dura is detected with postcontrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging .

Background	A 35-year-old woman with a long standing history of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis became physically incapacitated by heat-induced muscle weakness while sunbathing and suffered fatal sun exposure .
Background	These deleterious effects of increased core temperature on the neurological symptoms have been documented for a half century .
Background	Elevation of the patient 's core temperature may lead to either transient or permanent neurologic symptoms and signs that predispose to considerable morbidity and mortality .

Background	Studies aimed at characterizing the operation of cognitive functions in normal individuals have examined data from patients with focal cerebral insult .
Background	These studies assume that brain damage impairs functions of the cognitive processes along lines that honour the ` normal ' pre-morbid organization of the cognitive system .
Background	For example , detailed study of individual brain-damaged patients has revealed apparently selective disruption of cognitive functions such as auditory/verbal working memory , phonological processing ability , grapheme-to-phoneme translation procedures and se
Background	Warrington et al. have studied patients with even more fine-grained selective disturbances of the semantic system .
Background	The most selective deficits have been reported for four patients who were significantly better at identifying inanimate objects than they were at identifying living things and foods .
Background	These patterns of selective deficit after localized brain damage provide important information about the normal organization of the lexicon , and ultimately about how components of the lexical system are related to particular neural substrates .
Method	Here , we report a case study of a patient demonstrating a very selective disturbance of the ability to name items from two related semantic categories .
Result	Despite normal performance on a large battery of lexical/semantic tasks , the patient shows a consistent and striking disability in naming members of the semantic categories of ` fruits ' and ` vegetables ' .
Result	The selectivity of this deficit supports a category-specific organization of the mental lexicon , and suggests independence of the processing routes involving naming and name recognition .

Background	There is great interest in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) and the associated large burden of disease .
Background	COPD is characterised by frequent day by day fluctuations , and repetitive clinical exacerbations are typical .
Background	Self-management is a term applied to educational programmes aimed at teaching skills needed to carry out medical regimens specific to the disease , guide health behaviour change , and provide emotional support for patients to control their disease and live
Background	In COPD , the value of self-management education is not yet clear .
Background	The first Cochrane review about self-management was published in 2003 .
Background	It was intended to shed light on the effectiveness of self-management programmes in COPD and the relative efficacy of their constitutive elements .
Background	No conclusions about the effectiveness of self-management could be drawn because of the large variation in outcome measures used in the limited number of included studies .
Method	This article describes the first update of this review .
Method	The objective of this review was to assess the settings , methods and efficacy of COPD self-management education programmes on health outcomes and use of health care services .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Airways Group trial register , MEDLINE ( January 1985 to January 2006 ) , reference lists , and abstracts of medical conferences .
Method	Controlled trials ( randomised and non-randomised ) of self-management education in patients with COPD .
Method	Studies focusing mainly on pulmonary rehabilitation and studies without usual care as a control group were excluded .
Method	Two reviewers independently assessed study quality and extracted data .
Method	Investigators were contacted for additional information .
Result	The reviewers included 15 group comparisons drawn from 14 trials .
Result	They assessed a broad-spectrum of interventions and health outcomes with different follow-up times .
Result	Meta-analyses could often not appropriately be performed because of heterogeneity among studies .
Result	The studies showed a significant reduction in the probability of at least one hospital admission among patients receiving self-management education compared to those receiving usual care ( OR 0.64 ; 95 % CI ( 0.47 to 0.89 ) ) .
Result	This translates into a one year NNT ranging from 10 ( 6 to 35 ) for patients with a 51 % risk of exacerbation , to an NNT of 24 ( 16 to 80 ) for patients with a 13 % risk of exacerbation .
Result	On the disease specific SGRQ , differences reached statistical significance at the 5 % level on the total score ( WMD -2.58 ; 95 % CI ( -5.14 to -0.02 ) ) and impact domain ( WMD -2.83 ; 95 % CI ( -5.65 to -0.02 ) ) , but these difference did not reach the clinically re
Result	A small but significant reduction was detected in dyspnoea measured with the BORG-scale ( WMD -0.53 ; 95 % CI ( -0.96 to -0.10 ) ) .
Result	No significant effects were found either in number of exacerbations , emergency department visits , lung function , exercise capacity , and days lost from work .
Result	Inconclusive results were observed in doctor and nurse visits , on symptoms other than dyspnoea , the use of courses of oral corticosteroids and antibiotics , and the use of rescue medication .
Result	It is likely that self-management education is associated with a reduction in hospital admissions with no indications for detrimental effects in other outcome parameters .
Result	This would in itself already be enough reason for recommending self-management education in COPD .
Result	However , because of heterogeneity in interventions , study populations , follow-up time , and outcome measures , data are still insufficient to formulate clear recommendations regarding the form and contents of self-management education programmes in COPD .
Result	There is an evident need for more large RCTs with a long-term follow-up , before more conclusions can be drawn .

Background	Spinal epidural hematoma ( SEH ) is rare and not without serious sequelae .
Background	We report a patient who developed Brown-Séquard syndrome from SEH after fluoroscopic-guided cervical steroid injection and favorable response to methylprednisolone ( MP ) .
Method	A 56-year-old man reported immediate sharp shooting pain to the upper extremities on introduction of epidural toughy needle .
Method	A total of 5 mL of 0.2 % ropivacaine and 120 mg methylprednisolone acetate suspension was administered at the C6-7 interspace .
Method	Within half an hour , a neurologic deficit occurred at C7-8 and right Brown-Séquard syndrome developed .
Method	Once SEH was suspected ( 3 hours after onset of neurologic deficit ) , a protocol of high-dose MP intravenous infusion was initiated .
Result	Immediate incomplete recovery of motor , sensory , and sphincteric functions was noted within 30 minutes of infusion .
Result	Emergency spinal C6-T2 bilateral decompressive laminectomies and evacuation SEH were performed within an expected delay ( 10 hours from the onset of neurologic deficit ) .
Result	Fluoroscopic guidance does not take the place of adherence to meticulous technique .
Result	An unexplained neurologic deficit after invasive spinal procedures should raise the concern for SEH .
Result	Early recognition and emergent evacuation remain the mainstay management for SEH .
Result	This case suggests some neuroprotection from MP in cases of cervicothoracic cord compression secondary to traumatic SEH .
Result	When potential risks for SEH exist , it is advisable not to administer local anesthetic so as not to interfere with neurologic assessment and delaying the diagnosis .

Background	Although clinical trials demonstrate the efficacy of quality improvement outreach in improving service delivery , evidence for broad community effectiveness has been lacking .
Background	The objective of this study was to test the effectiveness of a statewide pediatric quality improvement outreach program in improving preventive services for children who are younger than 5 years .
Method	All pediatric practices in Vermont ( n = 35 ) were invited to participate in a preventive services quality improvement initiative .
Method	Ninety-one percent agreed .
Method	Participating practices serve > 80 % of all Vermont children who are younger than 5 years .
Method	The main outcome measured was change in 9 preventive services areas ( 1 ) immunizations up to date ; ( 2 ) anemia screening ; ( 3 ) tuberculosis risk assessment and indicated screening ; ( 4 ) lead screening ; ( 5 ) infant sleep position counseling ; ( 6 ) environmental tobacco smoke-exposure risk assessment ; ( 7 ) blood pressure screening ; ( 8 ) vision screening ; and ( 9 ) dental risk assessment .
Result	All practices demonstrated improvement in 1 or more preventive services areas .
Method	The mean number of areas chosen was 5 ( range 1-9 ) .
Result	Practices that selected a specific preventive service area as a quality improvement goal were more likely to demonstrate improvement in that area than practices that did not choose to focus on that preventive services area .
Result	The work in this project has provided the evidence for an effective statewide pediatric quality improvement outreach program to improve preventive services for children who are younger than 5 years .
Result	Practices ' decision to focus on a specific preventive service area as a quality improvement goal seems necessary for improvement in that area .
Result	This approach may be effective in other states or regions .

Background	Screening for ovarian cancer in the general population presents several unique challenges .
Background	Without a clearly identified premalignant state , efforts have focused on detection of early stage disease .
Background	Towards this end , investigators have focused on the use of serum markers and transvaginal ultrasound .
Method	CA125 determination is the most reliable serum marker in use , and utilization of serial measurements to calculate risk of cancer appears to have greater utility than evaluation of a single value .
Background	Multimodality screening focuses on combining serial CA125 measurement with transvaginal ultrasound follow-up for those with abnormal values .
Background	Large prospective trials , such as the United Kingdom Collaborative Trial of Ovarian Cancer Screening ( UKCTOCS ) , are currently underway to assess the impact of various screening strategies on mortality , and to evaluate feasibility , acceptability , and morbi
Background	Future research efforts will undoubtedly focus on promising techniques to examine the serum proteosome for patterns to identify early ovarian cancer .

Background	Atrial arrhythmias often complicate congestive heart failure ( CHF ) .
Method	We characterized inducible atrial tachyarrhythmias and electrophysiologic alterations in dogs with CHF and atrial enlargement produced by rapid ventricular pacing .
Method	Endocardial pacing leads were implanted in the right ventricle , right atrium , and coronary sinus in 18 dogs .
Method	The right ventricular lead was connected to an implanted pacemaker capable of rapid ventricular pacing .
Method	The atrial leads were used to perform electrophysiologic studies in conscious animals at baseline in all dogs , during CHF induced by rapid ventricular pacing at 235 beats/min in 15 dogs , and during recovery from CHF in 6 dogs .
Result	After 20 + / - 7 days of rapid ventricular pacing , inducibility of sustained atrial tachycardia ( cycle length 120 + / - 12 msec ) was enhanced in dogs with CHF .
Result	Atrial tachycardia required a critical decrease in atrial burst pacing cycle length ( < or = 130 msec ) for induction and often could be terminated by overdrive pacing .
Result	Calcium antagonists ( verapamil , flunarizine , ryanodine ) terminated atrial tachycardia and suppressed inducibility .
Result	Effective refractory periods at 400 - and 300-msec cycle lengths in the right atrium and coronary sinus were prolonged in dogs with CHF .
Result	Atrial cells from dogs with CHF had prolonged action potential durations and reduced resting potentials and delayed afterdepolarizations ( DADs ) .
Result	Mitochondria from atrial tissue from dogs with CHF were enlarged and had internal cristae disorganization .
Result	CHF promotes inducibility of sustained atrial tachycardia .
Result	Based on the mode of tachycardia induction , responses to pacing and calcium antagonists , and presence of DADs , atrial tachycardia in this CHF model has a mechanism most consistent with DAD-induced triggered activity resulting from intracellular calcium ov

Background	A prospective study was performed to determine why some persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) fail to return for scheduled evaluations in order to identify predictive factors that could be used to target those at greatest risk for noncompliance and facili
Method	Sixty-one noncompliant subjects and 102 persons compliant with regularly scheduled annual examinations were paid to come to the clinic for evaluation .
Method	Each participant completed a psychological questionnaire comprised of theoretical and socioeconomic variables .
Result	There was no difference between the two groups according to gender , race , level or completeness of injury , education , etiology of injury , responses to questions from the Health Locus of Control Scale , Health Beliefs Model , inconvenience or discomfort .
Result	For noncompliant versus compliant persons , cost ( P = 0.0002 ) , distance ( P = 0.0047 ) , transportation ( P = 0.0330 ) , belief that follow-up was not necessary ( P < 0.0001 ) , availability of good local doctor ( P = 0.0001 ) and time ( P = 0.0209 ) were identified
Result	These data indicate a need to improve the education for newly injured persons as well as those persons residing in the community on the importance of regular urological follow-up , to maintain close contact post-discharge and to assist in identifying commu

Background	To assess the efficacy of transvaginal sonography ( TVS ) in differentiating endometriomas from other adnexal masses .
Method	One thousand thirty-five adnexal masses undergoing laparoscopy or laparotomy were evaluated prospectively using TVS .
Method	Masses diagnosed as endometrioma according to their sonographic appearance were divided into two groups those with a round shape , regular margins , thick walls and homogeneous , low-level echoes ( group A ) ; or those with irregular margins , internal septations and an anechoic appearance ( group B ) .
Result	The sensitivity of TVS in diagnosing endometriomas was 86.50 % and the specificity 99.11 % .
Result	The positive predictive value ( PPV ) and the negative predictive value of the test were calculated to be 91.45 % and 98.14 % , respectively .
Result	By using the criteria determining group A , the PPV of the test increased to 97 % , whereas group B had a lower PPV ( 70.85 % ) .
Result	We propose that the accuracy of TVS in diagnosing endometriomas may be beneficial in various clinical conditions .

Background	To address the following questions : ( 1 ) What evidence ( ie , psychometric data collected in pediatric primary care , patient outcome data ) exists for the various methods used to identify adolescent depression in primary care ?
Background	and ( 2 ) What identification practices are currently in use ?
Method	We systematically searched MEDLINE for English-language articles using specific search terms and examined relevant titles , abstracts , and articles .
Method	We reviewed 1743 MEDLINE abstracts .
Method	Seventy-four articles were pulled for examination , with 30 articles meeting full criteria .
Method	Five studies had adequate psychometric data on various adolescent depression identification methods in primary care .
Method	Only 1 compared the diagnostic accuracy of physicians trained to ask depression questions vs physicians trained in the use of a diagnostic aid .
Method	Six studies reported on current practice .
Method	Evidence regarding sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value was sought for question 1 .
Method	Frequency of screening was sought for question 2 .
Result	Review of these articles found that few health care professionals use systematic depression identification methods , despite some growing evidence for their validity , feasibility , and possible efficacy .
Result	Available evidence indicates that primary care professionals would improve their rates of depression diagnosis through training , but even more so by using adolescent symptom rating scales .

Method	STUDY DESIGN : Case report .
Method	To report a rare case of spinal cord infarction following therapeutic computed tomography-guided nerve root injection .
Background	Diagnostic and therapeutic image-guided nerve root injection is commonly performed in the management of low back pain and sciatica .
Background	The severe complication of spinal cord infarction has been reported in only 3 cases previously .
Method	Retrospective review of case records and imaging .
Method	A 71-year-old woman presented with symptoms and signs of left L2 nerve root compression .
Result	She was managed with computed tomography-guided left L2 nerve root injection using bupivacaine and triamcinolone and developed immediate bilateral sensory loss and paraplegia .
Result	Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated diffuse hyperintensity within the distal thoracic cord and conus on T2-weighted images , consistent with spinal cord infarction .
Result	We report the fourth case of spinal cord infarction following nerve root injection .
Result	The severity of this complication warrants that it should be considered during patient consent for this procedure .

Background	Medically impairing injuries among medical personnel ( n = 209 ) were analyzed based on data obtained from the Work-Related No-Fault Liability Insurance 's ( TFA ) injury registration system .
Background	Almost half ( 98 ; 47 % ) were injured during patient care , of which 29 were injured as a result of physical trauma inflicted by the patient .
Background	When moving themselves between the homes of the patients and between different wards , 94 ( 45 % ) were injured ( 18 in vehicle crashes ) .
Background	The injuries most often resulting in medical impairment were sprains and/or strains ( 101 ; 48 % ) and fractures ( 67 ; 32 % ) .
Method	The injuries primarily affected the upper extremities ( 48 % ) .
Background	Fifteen percent had a medical impairment of 10 % or more , and in about half of the cases , the impairment was 1 % to 4 % .
Background	Every injured person was on sick leave for 7 months , on average , during the 2-year follow-up period .
Background	In 12 % of the cases , the injury led to a disability pension .

Method	Seventy consecutive patients with injuries of the thoracic and lumbar spine accompanied by neurological deficit were prospectively studied and follow-up .
Result	In 40 of these patients with a burst fracture , the degree of involvement of the cross-sectional area of the spinal canal , as revealed on first CT after admission , was not correlated with the type and degree of initial neurological deficit .
Result	In patients with injuries of the lumbar spine , neurological deficit may be mild , although the sagittal diameter of the spinal canal may be reduced by as much as 90 % .
Result	We can not establish a difference in neurological recovery between those cases who were managed conservatively and those in whom a surgical decompression and stabilization procedure was performed .
Result	Surgical stabilizing procedures , however , result in immediate stabilization of the spine , they diminish pain , facilitate nursing care and allow more rapid mobilization and earlier active rehabilitation .
Result	If major extraspinal injuries form a relative contra-indication to surgical decompression of the cord and stabilization of the spine injury , the patient can quite well be treated conservatively without endangering neurological recovery .

Background	Adult males with and without permanent damage to the spinal cord were contrasted in terms of their sexual responsiveness to erotic stimulation in film , spoken-text , and fantasy modes .
Result	Among the 16 spinal cord injured ( SCI ) men who were studied , several who had anticipated they would achieve erection failed to do so , whereas others demonstrated penile tumescence during erotic stimulation despite claiming they had lost the capacity for p
Result	Self-report is thus not a valid index of sexual responsivity following spinal cord injury .
Result	Levels of tumescence varied across modalities of stimulation in the same manner for SCI and non-SCI men , and within each modality the two groups demonstrated similar rates of buildup of arousal over segments of stimulation .
Result	The SCI men without erections should not be considered asexual since their subjective arousal paralleled the subjective arousal of the non-SCI men and the SCI men with erections .

Background	The objectives of this randomised controlled study were to determine if pre-admission patient education affects post-operative pain levels , domiciliary self-care capacity and patient recall following a laparoscopic cholecystectomy ( LC ) .
Method	Participants were randomised to receive the standard preadmission program ( SP ) or an individualised , education intervention ( El ) .
Method	A pre-operative questionnaire was administered in the pre-admission clinic to determine participants ' knowledge of LC and post-operative management .
Method	Telephone follow-up and post-operative questionnaire were conducted approximately 14 days post discharge .
Method	Preadmission clinic of a Sydney , Australia , tertiary referral hospital .
Method	Ninety-three elective LC patients .
Result	EI participants experienced lower pain levels and had significantly greater recall of provided information .
Result	However , no significant differences were found between the control and intervention groups for domiciliary self-care .
Result	Pre-admission education intervention helps reduce post-operative pain levels following LC and significantly increases patients ' knowledge of self-care and complication management .

Background	Pain resulting from a usually nonpainful stimulus ( allodynia ) is a common characteristic of neuropathic pain .
Background	Among animal models of allodynia , tight ligature of lumbar spinal nerves has been of special interest because it has been reported to be relieved by sympathectomy .
Background	The purpose of this study was to determine whether spinal analgesic agents , which have opposite effects on sympathetic nervous system activity ( clonidine decreases it and neostigmine increases it ) , have differing efficacy in this model .
Method	Male Sprague-Dawley rats were anesthetized , and the left L5 and L6 spinal nerves were ligated .
Method	At least 2 weeks later , a lumbar intrathecal or jugular intravenous catheter was inserted .
Method	Withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimulation of the hind paw was determined by application of von Frey filaments before surgery ; after surgery ; after intrathecal injection of clonidine , neostigmine , or their combination ; after intravenous injection of p
Result	Spinal nerve ligation reduced withdrawal threshold ipsilateral to the lesion .
Result	Neither chemical nor surgical sympathectomy altered allo
Result	Therefore , intrathecally administered analgesic agents , one that reduces sympathetic outflow from the spinal cord ( clonidine ) and one that increases it ( neostigmine ) , were similarly effective in this model .

Background	Neck disorders are common , disabling and costly .
Background	The effectiveness of electrotherapy as a physiotherapy option has remained unclear .
Method	To assess whether electrotherapy , either alone or in combination with other treatments , relieves pain , or improves function/disability , patient satisfaction , and global perceived effect in adults with mechanical neck disorders ( MND ) .
Method	Computer-assisted searches of bibliographic databases CENTRAL , MEDLINE , EMBASE , MANTIS , CINAHL , and ICL , without language restrictions , from their beginning to March 2003 .
Method	Randomised or controlled clinical trials with quasi-randomisation ( alternate allocation , case record numbers , dates of birth , etc. ) , in any language , investigating the effects of electrotherapy as a treatment for MND .
Method	At least two authors independently conducted citation identification , study selection , data abstraction , and methodological quality assessment .
Method	Using a random-effects model , relative risk , and standardized mean differences were calculated .
Method	The reasonableness of combining studies was assessed on clinical and statistical grounds .
Method	Due to heterogeneity , pooled effect measures were not calculated .
Result	Fourteen comparisons ( 525 people with MND ) , in 11 publications , were included in this review .
Result	The analysis was limited by underpowered low quality trials , paucity of literature , and heterogeneity of treatment subtypes .
Result	The results for the electrotherapy subtypes are : Limited evidence of benefit : low or high frequency pulsed electromagnetic field ( PEMF ) compared to placebo , provides immediate post treatment pain relief only for chronic MND , acute whiplash ( WAD ) Unclear o
Result	We can not make any definitive statements on electrotherapy for MND .
Result	The current evidence on Galvanic current ( direct or pulsed ) , iontophoresis , TENS , EMS , PEMF and permanent magnets is either lacking , limited , or conflicting .
Result	Possible new trials on these interventions should have larger patient samples and include more precise standardization and description of all treatment characteristics .

Background	The authors investigated the weight loss and maintenance in type 2 diabetic obese patients undergoing biliopancreatic diversion ( BPD ) .
Method	Two series of diabetic and non-diabetic obese patients matched for gender , age and baseline body mass index ( BMI ) were evaluated prior to BPD , on the occasion of the regular follow-up visit at 1 , 2 and 3 years following the operation , and at the fifth pos
Method	At each follow-up point , body weight ( BW ) , BMI , and serum glucose concentration were measured .
Result	In all type 2 diabetic patients , the serum glucose level fell to within the normal range at the first postoperative year and remained within normal limits without any medication throughout all the follow-up period .
Result	In preoperatively diabetic subjects , mean values of BW and BMI were closely similar to those of non-diabetic subjects at all follow-up points , and the stabilization weight was independently related to age and to initial BW values .
Result	In obese patients with type 2 diabetes , the glucose level steadily normalized in every case following BPD , and values remained unchanged throughout the follow-up period .
Result	After the operation , the type 2 diabetic obese patients experienced the same stable weight reduction as their non-diabetic counterparts .

Background	Acute urinary retention ( AUR ) is characterized by the sudden inability to urinate , which is usually extremely painful and requires catheterization .
Background	Prostaglandins play an important role in the genitourinary function as they provoke contractions of the detrusor muscle .
Background	Relaxation of the detrusor muscle , via the inhibition of the prostaglandin synthesis , could result in AUR .
Method	We conducted a population-based case-control study within the Integrated Primary Care Information project in the Netherlands to investigate whether the use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) is associated with an increased risk of AUR .
Method	All men 45 years or older registered in the database between 1995 and 2002 and with at least 6 months of valid history were included .
Method	Cases were all men with a validated diagnosis of AUR .
Method	To each case , up to 10 controls were matched on age and calendar time .
Result	Within the source population of 72 114 men , we identified 536 cases of AUR and 5348 matched controls .
Result	Risk of AUR was 2.02-fold higher in current users of NSAIDs than in nonusers ( 95 % confidence interval , 1.23-3 .31 ) .
Result	The highest risk for AUR ( adjusted odds ratio , 3.3 ; 95 % confidence interval , 1.2-9 .2 ) was observed in patients who recently started using NSAIDs and in those using a dose equal to or higher than the recommended daily dose .
Result	This study shows that the risk of AUR is about 2-fold higher in men who use NSAIDs .

Background	Two experiments were performed regarding the effect of conscious control on handwriting fluency in healthy adults and ADHD children .
Method	First , 26 healthy students were asked to write a sentence under different conditions .
Result	The results indicate that automated handwriting movements are independent from visual feedback .
Method	Second , the writing performance of 12 children with ADHD was examined on their usual medication with methylphenidate and under placebo .
Result	In comparison to placebo , medication with methylphenidate resulted in a reduced fluency of handwriting .
Result	Automated handwriting movements could be elicited in children with ADHD on medication .
Result	The results suggest that both visual and mental control of handwriting movements affect the automation of handwriting movements .
Result	Furthermore , a simple training procedure was designed and performed in a case study of a boy with ADHD .

Background	To describe potential therapeutic uses of calcitonin in the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis .
Method	Parenterally and intranasally administered calcitonin ( eel , salmon or human ) .
Result	Fracture , fracture pain and loss of bone mineral density in osteoporosis ; increased bone mass , prevention of fractures , reduction of pain and improved quality of life associated with calcitonin treatment .
Method	Relevant clinical studies and reports were examined , with an emphasis on recent randomized , placebo-controlled trials .
Method	In vitro and in vivo studies of osteoclast activity were also considered .
Method	Reducing fractures and fracture pain , increasing bone mineral density and minimizing side effects of treatment were given a high value .
Result	Calcitonin reduces acute pain associated with osteoporotic fractures and has been found useful in treating chronic back pain following vertebral fractures in spinal osteoporosis .
Result	It can prevent bone loss and may be effective in preventing fractures .
Result	Side effects are dose related and generally mild ; they include gastrointestinal , vascular and dermatologic conditions that can be treated symptomatically or by varying the dosage .
Result	Side effects are much rarer with nasal administration than with injection .
Result	True allergic reactions are rare .
Result	Calcitonin in both intramuscular and intranasal forms can reduce the pain of acute osteoporotic vertebral fractures and may be effective in treating that associated with chronic vertebral osteoporotic fractures .
Result	Calcitonin may also prevent postmenopausal bone loss and increase bone density in those with established osteoporosis .
Result	Current evidence for long-term prevention of fractures is limited and does not support the use of calcitonin as a first-line treatment for established osteoporosis .
Result	Most side effects can be avoided with nasal administration .
Result	Further trials are needed to assess fracture prevention and effective dose ranges for treating pain and increasing bone mineral density and to determine the long-term efficacy of calcitonin in secondary osteoporosis , in premenopausal women , in men and in

Background	Patients with refractory angina are not candidates for revascularization and have both class III or IV angina and objective evidence of ischemia despite optimal medical therapy .
Background	An estimated 300,000 to 900,000 patients in the United States have refractory angina , and 25,000 to 75,000 new cases are diagnosed each year .
Background	This review focuses on treatment strategies for refractory angina and includes the mechanism of action and clinical trial data for each strategy .
Method	The pharmacological agents that have been used are ranolazine , ivabradine , nicorandil , L-arginine , testosterone , and estrogen ; currently , only L-arginine , testosterone , and estrogen are approved by the Food and Drug Administration .
Result	Results with the noninvasive treatments of enhanced external counterpulsation and transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation are provided .
Result	Invasive treatment strategies including spinal cord stimulation , transmyocardial revascularization , percutaneous myocardial revascularization , and gene therapy are also reviewed .

Background	Perineural invasion is a histologic feature usually diagnostic of invasion in malignancies .
Background	In the breast , however , it has been associated with benign lesions such as sclerosing adenosis ( SA ) , complex sclerosing lesion/radial scar ( CSL/RS ) , and ductal carcinoma in situ ( DCIS ) .
Method	This article describes perineural invasion associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia ( ADH ) , florid hyperplasia without atypia ( FH ) , and DCIS .
Method	All cases with a diagnosis of perineural invasion were selected from a series of 10,000 breast consult cases .
Method	Invasive mammary carcinomas were excluded .
Result	Fourteen cases of perineural invasion were found and associated with the following diagnoses : ADH ( 5 ) , DCIS ( 3 ) , FH ( 5 ) , and ductal adenoma ( 1 ) .
Result	Nine cases developed in CSL/RS , 4 cases in SA , and 1 case in a previous biopsy site of ductal adenoma ; lesions were all less than 3 mm .
Result	The glands involving nerves showed cytologic and architectural features of the adjacent ADH , DCIS , and FH .
Result	Immunostaining for protein gene product ( PGP ) 9.5 marked nerves , and smooth muscle actin antibody highlighted the myoepithelial cells around glands .
Result	Perineural invasion seen in association with DCIS and ADH , in a background of CSL/RS and SA , may pose difficulty in diagnosis , especially in small biopsy specimens .
Result	It should be assessed with care to avoid misinterpretation as invasive mammary carcinoma .

Background	The goal of medical residency is to provide the best clinical education for future practice , while increasing quality and safety in current and future healthcare .
Background	This goal is not being met .
Background	Traditional residency programs often continue to utilize individually oriented , shame-and-blame approaches that do not recognize the systems nature of outcomes , care , and patient safety .
Background	Appropriate substantive methods , content , and training tools are also lacking , while residents continue to labor in a poor working environment .
Background	All these factors create a system that serves no one-not the resident , the patient , or the system in which both interact .
Background	Residency reforms are proposed to address these imperative concerns .

Background	Overactive bladder is a common health problem that affects millions of men and women .
Background	Despite its prevalence , provider knowledge is lacking with regard to evaluation and treatment modalities .
Background	Although bladder control problems are less common in men than in women , the burden of incontinence may be more significant .
Background	In men presenting with symptoms of urgency and frequency , a differential diagnosis between overactive bladder and benign prostatic disease must be made because their cause and treatment are different .
Background	Empiric treatment of urgency symptoms may cause them to worsen if the diagnosis is not correct .
Method	Symptom assessment should include a medical history , physical examination , urinalysis , and post void residual study .
Result	Over the past several years , many new medications have become available to treat both overactive bladder and benign prostatic disease .
Result	These medications , in combination with behavioral interventions , are safe and effective .
Result	The evaluation and treatment of men with symptoms of overactive bladder and/or incontinence is discussed .

Background	Neoplastic or traumatic lesions of the brain stem or the upper spinal cord frequently cause respiratory insufficiency necessitating permanent mechanical ventilation .
Background	If the integrity of the diaphragm and its nerves is not affected , adequate ventilation can be achieved by electric stimulation of the phrenic nerves .
Background	Diaphragm pacing systems mean the patients can be independent of ventilator treatment .
Background	This is a psychological advantage for the patient , giving him or her the option of living in less specialized medical care units and perhaps even at home .
Method	We report the case of a 47-year-old man with a brain stem tumour , which was resected in large pieces .
Method	During the postoperative period an increasingly severe respiratory insufficiency developed , which finally made continuous mechanical ventilation necessary .
Method	After the viability of the phrenic nerves and contractility of the diaphragm had been shown by direct stimulation of the nerves to be still intact , it was decided that a diaphragm pacer system should be implanted .
Method	A `` Diaphragm Pacer System S232 G '' ( Avery Laboratories , Glen Cove , N.Y. , USA : external transmitter , antenna , implanted electrode and receiver ) was implanted .
Method	Using a supraclavicular approach , phrenic nerve electrodes were placed around each nerve and connected with subcutaneous implants of radio signal receivers .
Method	Six days after implantation phrenic nerves were stimulated for a first short period .
Method	External antenna loops were taped to the skin over the implanted receiver sites ( Fig. 3 ) .
Result	The impulses produced by the transmitter were delivered via these antenna loops and led to contraction of the diaphragm , providing almost normal respiration .
Result	The duration of stimulation was increased stepwise from 1 h a day to full-time stimulation .
Result	Three weeks after implantation of the diaphragm pacer system the patient could be totally weaned from mechanical ventilation .
Result	After a further 2 weeks it was possible to discharge him from the intensive care unit , and he was then transferred to a rehabilitation centre .

Background	Nootropic drug nefiracetam and related compounds are used in diseases with learning and memory deficits .
Background	Recent studies have implicated relationships between learning , memory , and chronic pain .
Method	Thus , in the present report , we have studied the effects of nootropic drug nefiracetam on the thermal and mechanical hyperalgesia induced by partial sciatic nerve ligation or streptozotocin treatment in mice .
Result	In the thermal paw withdrawal test , p.o. , s.c. , i.t. , and i.c.v. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in nerve-injured mice .
Result	Nefiracetam ( p.o. and i.t. ) also significantly reversed the thermal hyperalgesia observed in streptozotocin-induced diabetic mice .
Result	In the paw pressure test , p.o. and i.t. administration of nefiracetam dose dependently reversed the mechanical hyperalgesia observed in both nerve-injured and diabetic mice .
Result	In contrast , nefiracetam had no effect in sham-operated or control nondiabetic mice in all paradigms .
Result	Among other pyrrolidine nootropics ( p.o. ) , aniracetam produced significant analgesic effects .
Result	Other analogs also had some , but not significant , analgesic effects .
Result	Finally , nefiracetam ( p.o. ) - induced analgesia in injured mice was not affected by opioid antagonist naloxone ( s.c. , i.t. , and i.c.v. ) but was dose dependently inhibited by nicotinic antagonist mecamylamine ( i.t. and i.c.v. ) .
Result	The analgesic effect of i.t. nefiracetam was also blocked by i.t. mecamylamine pretreatment .
Result	Together , these findings suggest that nefiracetam , a new member of the piracetam group of cognition enhancers , could be a good therapeutic tool against neuropathic pain .
Result	We also demonstrate that nefiracetam-induced analgesic action was nonopioid in nature and was due to stimulation of nicotinic cholinergic system at spinal and supraspinal levels .

Background	To determine whether enhanced access to primary care affects the diagnostic evaluation , pharmacologic management , or health outcomes of patients hospitalized with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) .
Method	Multisite randomized , controlled trial .
Method	Nine Veterans Affairs medical centers .
Method	443 patients who were hospitalized with a diagnosis of CHF .
Method	Enhanced access to primary care , including assignment of a primary care nurse and physician , increased telephone contact , additional outpatient visits , and patient education .
Method	Diagnostic evaluation , pharmacologic management , health-related quality of life , and hospital readmission rates .
Result	About 80 % of patients who had enhanced access to care and patients receiving usual care underwent recommended evaluation of left ventricular ejection fraction .
Result	Among the subset of patients for whom an angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor was recommended ( i.e. , ejection fraction < 40 % ) , three quarters of the patients in both the enhanced access and usual care groups received the drug ( 75 % vs. 73 % ; P >
Result	Enhanced access to primary care did not improve quality of life and increased hospital readmissions , with an average of 1.5 + / - SD 2.0 readmissions per 6 months of follow-up for patients who had enhanced access compared with 1.1 + / - SD 1.8 for those who r
Result	Compliance with recommended CHF testing and treatment guidelines was equally high in both study groups .
Result	Enhanced access to primary care did not improve patients ' self-reported health status and was associated with more frequent hospitalizations .

Background	In 1998 , a research study was conducted to compare existing programs in the European Union providing both care to people with senile dementia of the Alzheimer type , and support to their informal caregiver .
Method	Five programs were selected in seven centres .
Method	Home social services ( Denmark ) , Day centres ( Germany ) , Expert Centres ( Belgium , Spain ) , Group Living/Cantou ( Sweden , France ) , Respite hospitalization ( France ) .
Method	In each centre , 50 patients were randomly selected .
Method	The questionnaire addressed informal caregivers ( or referents ) .
Method	It included the Nottingham Health Profile ( NHP ) , the Zarit Scale , and it collected data on age , sex and position ( spouse or child ) of the informal caregiver , as well as age , level of mental deterioration and disabilities of the patient .
Result	( n = 322 subjects ) Comparatively with caregivers of Respite hospitalization patients chosen as the reference , caregivers of patients cared by Group living/Cantou and Home social services experienced a significantly lower burden .
Result	The benefit from the Expert centre program concerned emotional reactions ( depression ) ( odds ratio = 0.32 ; P = 0.02 ) and work burden ( Zarit ) ( OR = 0.32 ; P = 0.04 ) .
Result	The main benefit for caregivers who received Day centre help was the important reduction of feelings of social isolation ( OR = 0.13 ; P = 0.0003 ) .
Result	The Group Living/Cantou program appeared as the most efficient way to reduce informal caregiver burden , independently from the country considered .

Background	The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of chronic administration of paroxetine ( selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor : SSRI ) on motor cortex excitability in healthy subjects by means of transcranial magnetic stimulation ( TMS ) , functional magn
Method	In a randomized , double-blind , crossover study , twenty-one right-handed subjects received 20 mg daily of either paroxetine or a placebo over a period of 30 days separated by a period of 3 months wash-out .
Result	The TMS study is presented here correlated with some results of the motor behavior study ( finger tapping test ) and the fMRI study ( primary sensorimotor cortex ( S1M1 ) volume of activation ) .
Result	TMS was used to test motor threshold ( MT ) , motor evoked potential recruitment curve ( RC ) , cortical silent period ( CSP ) and paired-pulse intracortical inhibition and facilitation ( ICI , ICF ) .
Result	Chronic administration of paroxetine did not modulate ICI or CSP but induced a significant enhancement of mean ICF ( ANOVA P = 0.04 ) , which significantly correlated with increase of speed in a finger tapping test ( P = 0.02 ) .
Result	This suggests a modulation of cortical interneuronal excitatory pathways without changes in the excitability of cortical inhibitory GABAergic interneurons .
Result	A decrease of RC ( ANOVA P = 0.05 ) was also observed after 30 days intake of paroxetine in comparison with placebo and was associated with changes of fMRI activation intensity ( left S1M1 hypoactivation , ) , without changes of S1M1 activation volume .
Result	Finally , the different modulation of RC and ICF after chronic administration of paroxetine compared to single dose ( opposite effects ) emphasizes the different pharmacological action of the drug at cortical level depending on its acute or long-term adminis

Background	A 38-year-old man in a wheelchair for spinal cord injury from a traffic accident was referred to our hospital with complaint of dull right flank pain .
Background	The patient had a history of skin ulcer formation on both toes due to poor circulation .
Background	Abdominal ultrasonography and computed tomographic scan revealed a huge retroperitoneal tumor compressing the right kidney .
Background	Serum levels of cortisol , adrenocorticotropic hormone , aldosterone , adrenalin , noradrenalin , urinary levels of vanillylmandelic acid , homovanillic acid , 17-ketosteroid and 17-hydroxycorticosteroid were all within normal limits .
Method	Combining all preoperative diagnostic information , the possibility of retroperitoneal liposarcoma could not be thoroughly ruled out .
Method	The patient consented to undergo resection of the tumor with the right kidney .
Method	Prior to the scheduled operation simulation of the positioning on the operation table was done to evaluate the compressing pressure .
Method	During operation decompressing pads were used to minimize the compressing pressure and intermittent pneumatic compression was also used to prevent pressure ulcer and facilitate circulation to the lower extremities .
Method	Five thousands units of heparin ( FragminR , Pfizer , USA ) was used daily to prevent deep vein thrombosis until the patient could use his wheelchair .
Method	Perioperative rehabilitation was conducted by a team of physical therapists .
Method	The excised tumor weighed 1,320 g.
Result	Pathologic diagnosis was an adrenal myelolipoma .
Result	Convalescence was uneventful and the patient was discharged on the 10th post operative day .
Result	Between 1992 and 2006 , 80 cases of adrenal myelolipoma were reported in Japan .
Result	Our case was found to be the second largest one .
Result	We reviewed these 80 cases and discussed the diagnosis and treatment strategy of the adrenal myelolipoma .
Result	We also discussed the perioperative management for patients with spinal cord injury .

Background	The recent literature on the antinociceptive action of ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists is reviewed with special emphasis on their clinical potential .
Background	Actually the glutamatergic pathways descending from the brain stem into the spinal cord may generate analgesia .
Background	However , physiologically more important is that glutamate and aspartate are apparently the main neurotransmitters along the ascending nociceptive pathways in the spinal cord .
Background	Glutamate , aspartate and their receptors can be detected in particularly high concentrations in the dorsal root ganglia and the superficial laminae ( I , II ) of the spinal cord .
Background	In low doses glutamate receptor antagonists only slightly elevate the threshold of the physiological pain sensation .
Background	However , they suppress the process of pathological sensitisation i.e. lowering of the pain threshold seen upon excessive or lasting stimulation of C-fibre afferents , a process that takes place during inflammation or other kinds of tissue injury .
Background	At electrophysiological level antagonists of both the NMDA - and AMPA/kainate receptors inhibit wind up i.e. lasting activation of the polymodal , second-order sensory neurones in the deeper layers of the dorsal horn .
Background	During sensitisation the resting Mg ( + + ) blockade of transmembrane Ca ( + + ) channels is abolished , certain second messenger pathways are activated , the transcription of many genes is enhanced leading to overproduction of glutamate and other excitatory neurot
Background	This cascade of events leads to increased excitability of the pain pathways .
Background	NMDA antagonists are apparently more potent in experimental models of neuropathic pain , whereas AMPA antagonists are more effective in abolition of hyperalgesia seen during experimental inflammation .
Background	Clinically , of the previously known NMDA antagonists amantadine , dextromethorphan and ketamine have been tested , the latter extensively .
Background	Ketamine has been found quite active in certain cases of neuropathic pain and it reduced the opiate demand when used for postoperative analgesia .
Background	However , in other types of clinical pain their efficacy is less convincing .
Method	Not being registered there are no clinical data on the AMPA antagonists .
Background	There are , however , some investigational new drugs and some novel compounds in the stage of preclinical development which antagonise the AMPA receptors in competitive fashion or allosterically .
Background	Of the latter molecules 2,3-benzodiazepines are particularly promising .

Background	One aspect of the Clinton Healthcare Reform programme is to assist health maintenance organizations ( HMOs ) in collecting and analysing data for the purpose of continuous quality improvement .
Background	The HEDIS 2.0 quality performance measurement model is currently in use and endorsed by the National Committee for Quality Assurance ( NCQA ) .
Background	Outlines a process using HEDIS 2.0 by which an HMO can identify crucial problem areas and track the success of the solution process .
Background	Discusses the use of other relevant statistical tools .

Background	The purpose of this health technology assessment ( HTA ) , commissioned by the German Federal Ministry of Health and Social Security , was to systematically review the evidence for the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of antiviral treatment ( AVT ) with int
Method	We performed a systematic literature search on effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of AVT and summarized results using meta-analysis and evidence tables .
Method	We applied the German Hepatitis C Model ( GEHMO ) , a decision-analytic Markov model , to determine long-term clinical effectiveness , costs , and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ( ICER ) of the examined treatment strategies .
Method	Model parameters were derived from German databases , published international randomized clinical trials ( RCT ) , and a Cochrane Review .
Result	Overall , nine RCTs , two HTA reports , one Cochrane review , two meta-analyses , and seven economic evaluations met the inclusion criteria .
Result	These studies indicate that PegIFN + RBV achieved the highest sustained virological response rates ( SVR ) ( 54-61 percent ) , followed by IFN + RBV ( 38-54 percent ) and IFN monotherapy ( 11-21 percent ) .
Result	Based on our meta-analysis , PegIFN + RBV reduced cases without SVR by 17 percent compared with INF + RBV .
Result	International cost-effectiveness studies indicate that INF + RBV is cost-effective when compared with INF monotherapy .
Result	For PegIFN + RBV , our decision analysis yielded an ICER of 9,800 Euros per quality-adjusted life-year gained .
Result	This HTA suggests that initial combination therapy prolongs life , improves quality of life , and is cost-effective in patients with CHC .
Result	Peginterferon plus ribavirin is the most effective and efficient treatment among the examined options .
Result	However , because not all chronic hepatitis C patients will develop progressive liver disease , a thorough assessment of the eligibility and appropriateness of treatment with combination therapy must be performed in each individual patient .

Background	Mechanical bowel preparation before colonic surgery is widely advocated but remains controversial .
Background	Recent guidelines published by the Clinical Standards Board for Scotland recommend mechanical bowel preparation prior to surgery for all colorectal cancers but this may be inappropriate .
Method	This study examines the outcome of a policy of no mechanical preparation before elective right hemicolectomy .
Method	Data on 102 consecutive patients undergoing elective right or extended right hemicolectomy for colonic adenocarcinoma were extracted from a prospective database .
Result	No clinical anastomotic leaks were observed .
Result	Two patients developed wound infections and one patient died with no autopsy evidence of anastomotic leak .
Result	Mechanical bowel preparation can safely be omitted prior to right hemicolectomy in patients with colonic cancer .

Background	The antihypersensitivity actions of gabapentin and pregabalin have been well characterized in a large number of studies , although the underlying mechanisms have yet to be defined .
Background	We have been focusing on the supraspinal structure as a possible site for their action and have demonstrated that intracerebroventricular ( i.c.v. ) administration of gabapentin and pregabalin indeed decreases thermal and mechanical hypersensitivity in a mu
Result	This novel supraspinally mediated analgesic effect was markedly suppressed by either depletion of central noradrenaline ( NA ) or blockade of spinal alpha ( 2 ) - adrenergic receptors .
Result	Moreover , i.c.v. injection of gabapentin and pregabalin increased spinal NA turnover in mice only after peripheral nerve injury .
Result	In locus coeruleus ( LC ) neurons in brainstem slices prepared from mice after peripheral nerve injury , gabapentin reduced the gamma-aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) type A receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents ( IPSCs ) .
Result	Glutamate-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission was hardly affected .
Result	Moreover , gabapentin did not reduce IPSCs in slices taken from mice given a sham operation .
Result	Although gabapentin altered neither the amplitude nor the frequency of miniature IPSCs , it reduced IPSCs together with an increase in the paired-pulse ratio , suggesting that gabapentin acts on the presynaptic GABAergic nerve terminals in the LC .
Result	Together , the data suggest that gabapentin presynaptically reduces GABAergic synaptic transmission , thereby removing the inhibitory influence on LC neurons only in neuropathic pain states , leading to activation of the descending noradrenergic system .

Background	Cannabis has been known as a medicine for several thousand years across many cultures .
Background	It reached a position of prominence within Western medicine in the nineteenth century but became mired in disrepute and legal controls early in the twentieth century .
Background	Despite unremitting world-wide suppression , recreational cannabis exploded into popular culture in the 1960s and has remained easily obtainable on the black market in most countries ever since .
Background	This ready availability has allowed many thousands of patients to rediscover the apparent power of the drug to alleviate symptoms of some of the most cruel and refractory diseases known to humankind .
Background	Pioneering clinical research in the last quarter of the twentieth century has given some support to these anecdotal reports , but the methodological challenges to human research involving a pariah drug are formidable .
Background	Studies have tended to be small , imperfectly controlled , and have often incorporated unsatisfactory synthetic cannabinoid analogues or smoked herbal material of uncertain composition and irregular bioavailability .
Background	As a result , the scientific evaluation of medicinal cannabis in humans is still in its infancy .
Background	New possibilities in human research have been opened up by the discovery of the endocannabinoid system , a rapidly expanding knowledge of cannabinoid pharmacology , and a more sympathetic political environment in several countries .
Background	More and more scientists and clinicians are becoming interested in exploring the potential of cannabis-based medicines .
Background	Future targets will extend beyond symptom relief into disease modification , and already cannabinoids seem to offer particular promise in the treatment of certain inflammatory and neurodegenerative conditions .
Background	This chapter will begin with an outline of the development and current status of legal controls pertaining to cannabis , following which the existing human research will be reviewed .
Background	Some key safety issues will then be considered , and the chapter will conclude with some suggestions as to future directions for human research .

Method	Hyperbaric oxygenation ( HBO ) in a pressure chamber with an oxygen pressure of up to 2.8 absolute atmospheres administered to patients with various lesions of the spinal cord ( trauma sequelae , discogenic ischemic myelopathy , states after tumor removal , etc
Result	Pelvic and motor functions as well as sensitivity and reflexes returned to normal and the pain syndromes were alleviated .
Result	The therapeutic response to HBO is directly dependent on the role played by reversible functional lesions of the spinal cord in the general picture of the disease .

Background	The study examined whether associations between bone , body composition and strength are age dependent .
Method	Two age levels ( premenarcheal girls and postmenopausal women on HRT ) were studied in a 10-month follow-up .
Method	Bone , lean and fat mass were measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry ( DXA ) , and strength was measured using an isokinetic dynamometer .
Result	In girls , significant correlations were found between mass ( lean , fat and body mass ) , strength and most bone characteristics ( r = 0.15-0 .93 ) .
Result	At the proximal femur changes in bone mineral density ( BMD ) were moderately related to changes in body composition .
Result	In the women , body mass and lean mass were significantly correlated with most bone characteristics ( r = 0.34-0 .82 ) .
Result	Low to moderate correlations were observed between changes in bone and changes in body composition .
Result	After controlling for lean mass the relation between strength and bone was no longer significant .
Result	In premenarcheal girls , bone is partly determined by mass , with lean mass the most important predictor at the femoral sites .
Result	In postmenopausal women , lean mass is an important determinant of bone mineral content ( BMC ) and BMD , but changes in BMD are related to changes in fat .
Result	The relation between strength and BMD is mainly attributable to the relation between lean mass and BMD .
Result	The contributory effects of soft tissue to bone change over different life periods .

Background	Dynorphin is a neuropeptide that is present in high quantities in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord .
Background	The peptide is actively involved in pain processing pathways .
Background	However , its involvement in spinal cord injury is not well known .
Method	Alteration in dynorphin immunoreactivity occurs following a focal trauma to the rat spinal cord .
Method	Infusion of dynorphin into the intrathecal space of the cord results in ischemia , cell damage and abnormal motor function .
Method	Antibodies to dynorphin when injected into the intrathecal space of the spinal cord following trauma improve motor recovery , reduce edema and cell changes .
Background	However , influence of dynorphin on trauma induced alteration in spinal cord bioelectrical activity is still not known .
Background	Spinal cord evoked potentials ( SCEP ) are good indicator of spinal cord pathology following trauma .
Background	Therefore , in present investigation , influence of dynorphin antibodies on trauma induced changes in SCEP were examined in our rat model .
Background	In addition , spinal cord edema formation , microvascular permeability disturbances and cell injury were also investigated .
Result	Our results show that topical application of dynorphin antiserum ( 1 : 200 ) two min before injury markedly attenuated the SCEP changes immediately after injury .
Result	In the antiserum treated animals , a significant reduction in the microvascular permeability , edema formation and cell injury was observed in the traumatised spinal cord .
Result	the peptide actively participates in the pathophysiological processes of cell injury in the spinal cord trauma , and

Method	The relative specificity of CDS versus conventional TVS was assessed in 96 women with surgically excised and pathologically examined pelvic masses .
Result	In general , CDS was more specific than TVS in 43 % of cases , both were equally specific in 41 % , neither was more specific in 10 % , and TVS was more specific than CDS in 6 % .
Result	In particular , CDS seemed to be most specific in detecting ovarian malignancies , ovarian torsion , and ectopic pregnancy .
Result	The positive and negative predictive values of CDS were higher in postmenopausal women than in premenopausal women .
Result	The use of CDS as an adjunct to TVS is supported by the data from this study .

Method	The design and conduct of a randomized , double-blinded , placebo-controlled , multicenter , phase III study of recombinant interferon beta-1a ( IFN-beta-1a ) as treatment for exacerbating-remitting MS are described , as are baseline characteristics of the study
Background	The purpose of the study was to determine if 6.0 x 10 ( 6 ) IU ( 30 micrograms ) of IFN-beta-1a , administered by weekly intramuscular ( i.m. ) injections , was effective in delaying the onset of sustained disability .
Method	The primary outcome measure was time to onset of treatment failure , defined as a worsening on the Kurtzke Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) of greater than or equal to 1.0 point compared with baseline , persisting for at least 6 months .
Method	An intent-to-treat design was used .
Method	The primary outcome measure was analyzed using the Mantel-Cox log-rank statistic and Kaplan-Meier survival curves .
Method	Secondary outcomes included quantitative measures of upper and lower extremity function , neuropsychological test performance , functional and quality of life assessments and several measures derived from annual brain MRI studies .
Method	Entry criteria included prestudy exacerbation rates of at least 0.67 per year and EDSS scores of 1.0-3 .5 .
Method	A total of 301 MS patients were randomly assigned to receive weekly i.m. injections of IFN-beta-1a or placebo .
Result	The average age of the study population at entry was 37 years ; 92 % were Caucasian and 73 % were women .
Result	The mean prestudy disease duration was 6.5 years , mean prestudy exacerbation rate was 1.2 per year and the mean EDSS score was 2.3 .
Result	The randomization yielded well-balanced treatment arms .
Result	Various aspects of the study are discussed , including : ( 1 ) the decision to focus study design on sustained disability ; ( 2 ) the rationale for the treatment regimen ; ( 3 ) measures taken to assure the reliability of the primary outcome measure ; and ( 4 ) a desc

Method	STUDY DESIGN : Cross-sectional .
Background	The objective of this study was to examine the association between the characteristics of individuals with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and self-reported health-related quality of life ( HRQoL ) .
Method	The United States .
Method	Questions from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System ( BRFSS ) survey were sent to veterans with SCI .
Method	The analyses included 2302 respondents .
Method	Logistic regression analysis was used to examine the association between subject characteristics and the following four measures of HRQoL frequent physical distress ( FPD ) , frequent mental distress ( FMD ) , frequent depressive symptoms ( FDS ) and poor or fair self-reported health .
Result	Approximately 19 % of the respondents reported FMD , 27 % reported FPD , 17 % reported FDS and 29 % reported poor or fair health .
Result	Veterans who self-reported chronic illnesses , had higher odds of reporting FPD , FMD , FDS and poor or fair health than veterans who did not report chronic illnesses .
Result	Smoking was significantly associated with decreased HRQoL .
Result	Older veterans had higher odds of reporting poor or fair health and FPD than younger veterans .
Result	Higher levels of education were associated with lower odds of FMD , FDS and poor or fair health .
Result	Chronic illnesses and smoking have a substantial effect on HRQoL for persons with SCI , suggesting the importance of continued efforts to improve smoking cessation methods and to treat and prevent chronic conditions .

Background	During the past year , investigations involving the etiology , diagnostic evaluation , and therapy of low back pain have reported interesting new data .
Background	The natural history of degenerative intervertebral disk disease may be explained by peripheral annular fiber injury that results in damage to the nucleus pulposus .
Background	Diurnal changes in patient clinical symptoms and signs may have a correlate in alteration of spinal mechanics that occurs during the course of a day .
Background	The diagnostic evaluation of low back pain continues to be revolutionized by magnetic resonance imaging .
Background	Although magnetic resonance imaging is able to detect specific lesions with greater sensitivity than other radiographic techniques , correlation between clinical symptoms and signs and anatomic abnormalities is essential for correct diagnosis .
Background	Therapeutic controversies continue concerning the efficacy of chiropractic intervention and transcutaneous electric nerve stimulation for low back pain patients .
Background	Microsurgical techniques for disk removal may prove to be associated with less morbidity than diskectomy with laminectomy , but require additional study .

Background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) is associated with a decrease in renal perfusion .
Background	Because endothelium-derived NO is important in the regulation of renal blood flow ( RBF ) , we tested the hypothesis that an impairment in the NO system may contribute to the decrease in RBF in rats with experimental CHF .
Method	Studies were performed in rats with experimental high-output CHF induced by aortocaval ( AV ) fistula and sham-operated controls .
Result	In controls , incremental doses of acetylcholine ( ACh , 1 to 100 microg x kg ( -1 ) x min ( -1 ) ) increased RBF and caused a dose-related decrease in renal vascular resistance ( RVR ) .
Result	However , the increase in RBF and decrease in RVR were markedly attenuated in rats with CHF .
Result	Likewise , the effects of ACh on urinary sodium and cGMP excretion were also diminished in CHF rats , as was the renal vasodilatory effect of the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine ( SNAP ) .
Result	These attenuated responses to endothelium-dependent and - independent renal vasodilators in CHF rats occurred despite a normal baseline and stimulated NO2 + NO3 excretion and normal expression of renal endothelial NO synthase ( eNOS ) , as determined by eNOS mR
Result	Infusion of the NO precursor L-arginine did not affect baseline RBF or the response to ACh in rats with CHF .
Result	However , administration of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist A81988 before ACh completely restored the renal vasodilatory response to ACh in CHF rats .
Result	This study demonstrates that despite a significant attenuation in the NO-related renal vasodilatory responses , the integrity of the renal NO system is preserved in rats with chronic AV fistula .
Result	This impairment in NO-mediated renal vasodilation in experimental CHF appears to be related to increased activity of the renin-angiotensin system and may contribute further to the decrease in renal perfusion seen in CHF .

Background	Sleep disorders are frequent and well documented in patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
Background	The effect of depression and anxiety on sleep in PD patients has not been carefully studied however , despite the fact that both depression and anxiety are common in PD and well known to affect sleep in patients without PD .
Method	In this questionnaire study , sleep , anxiety , and depression were evaluated in 99 patients with PD and 47 control subjects .
Result	PD patients had significantly higher scores on a variety of sleep variables as well as on measures of anxiety and depression .
Result	While anxiety and depression were correlated with some sleep measures , neither contributed significantly to overall variance in sleep quality .
Result	The effect on sleep variables was dominated by on-off symptom phenomena , levodopa dose , and age .

Background	To determine the relation between various components of spasticity evaluated clinically in persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
Method	Case series evaluating spasticity using clinical scales commonly referenced in contemporary literature , including the Penn Spasm Frequency Scale , the Ashworth Scale , and standard scales of tendon taps , clonus , and plantar stimulation .
Method	A Veterans Affairs Medical Center Spinal Cord Injury Center .
Method	Eighty-five spinal cord injured individuals with varying degrees of spasticity .
Result	Correlations demonstrated weak relationships between Spasm Frequency Scale and self-report scales of interference with function ( .407 ) and painful spasms ( .312 ) .
Result	No clinical examination score correlated with self-report scores greater than 0.4 .
Result	Three clinical examination scores correlated modestly ( > 0.5 ) - Ashworth score with patellar tendon taps ( .553 ) , ankle clonus with Achilles tendon tap ( .663 ) , and patellar tendon tap with adductor tendon tap ( .512 ) .
Result	Two other clinical scales correlated weakly ( > 0.4 ) - Achilles tendon tap with patellar tendon tap ( .417 ) and plantar reflex with adductor tendon taps ( .423 ) .
Result	Clinical scales currently used to evaluate spasticity in SCI correlate poorly with each other , suggesting that they each assess different aspects of spasticity .
Result	The use of any single scale is likely to underrepresent the magnitude and severity of spasticity in the SCI population .
Result	In the absence of agreement among these various scales and with the absence of an appropriate criterion standard for evaluation of spasticity , assessments of spasticity , whether clinical or neurophysiological in nature , should be comprehensive in scope .

Background	Neuropathic pain after spinal cord injury is not well understood and is difficult to treat .
Background	One possible cause is mismatch between motor commands and sensory feedback .
Method	This two-part study in five paraplegic patients investigated whether a visual illusion aimed to correct this mismatch reduces pain .
Method	In study 1 , patients undertook three conditions : ( i ) virtual walking : with a mirror placed in front of a screen , patients aligned their own upper body with a film of a lower body walking .
Method	Patients imagined walking and ` watched themselves ' walk ; ( ii ) guided imagery ; ( iii ) watching a film .
Method	One patient withdrew from virtual walking because of distress .
Result	For all patients , the mean ( 95 % CI ) decrease in pain ( 100 mm VAS ) was 42 mm ( approximately 65 % ) ( 11-73 mm ) for virtual walking , 18 mm ( 4-31 mm ) for guided imagery and 4mm ( -3 to 11 mm ) for watching the film .
Result	Mean ( 95 % CI ) time to return to pre-task pain was 34.9 min ( 20.1-49 .8 min ) for virtual walking ; 13.9 min ( -0.9 to 28.8 min ) for the guided imagery and 16.3 min ( 1.5-31 .2 min ) for the film .
Result	To investigate its clinical utility , four patients underwent virtual walking every weekday for 3 weeks .
Result	Mean ( 95 % CI ) decrease in pain was 53 mm ( 45-61 mm ) at post training and 43 mm ( 27-58 mm ) at 3-month follow-up .
Result	Virtual walking may be a viable treatment for pain after spinal cord injury .
Result	A clinical trial seems warranted .

Method	The authors have completed a large descriptive study of the system of psychiatric aftercare in Metropolitan Toronto .
Method	This article describes the relevant 6-month and 2-year postdischarge outcome in each of five aftercare components for 505 subjects in a traditional system of service delivery .
Method	Provincial hospital , research institute , and general hospital subgroups are compared .
Result	For the total group , recidivism and employment rates are similar to those found in previous studies .
Result	Symptoms and distress levels are high .
Result	Considerable numbers of subjects live in inadequate and unsatisfactory housing .
Result	Social isolation , inadequate income , and difficulties with instrumental role functioning are persistent problems with little improvement between 6 months and 2 years postdischarge .
Result	Differences among the subgroups vary according to type of outcome and , for the most part , can be explained by differences in the characteristics of the patients served by the three types of inpatient treatment settings .
Result	These findings provide additional information about serious deficiencies in discharge planning and aftercare service delivery that is focused primarily upon the treatment of illness .
Result	The authors conclude that a more balanced system of aftercare requires a shift in resources to rehabilitation programs in the community .

Background	Assess modifications of sexual function in men treated with intrathecal baclofen for spinal spasticity .
Method	Prospective before-after trial .
Method	A rehabilitation department of a university hospital ; follow-up was on an outpatient basis .
Method	A convenience sample of nine consecutively recruited men with spinal cord injury or multiple sclerosis who were receiving intrathecal baclofen by an implantable pump ; average follow-up was 44.4 months .
Method	A questionnaire focusing on libido ; ability to sustain reflexive and psychogenic erections ; rigidity , evaluated by a visual analog scale ; maximum duration of erection ; possibility of ejaculation .
Result	Libido and the ability to obtain psychogenic or reflexogenic erections were not modified .
Result	However , eight patients reported a decrease of erection rigidity and/or duration .
Result	Ejaculation was possible in three cases before implantation .
Result	It disappeared in two patients , and was more difficult to obtain in the last one .
Result	It reappeared after treatment withdrawal .
Result	No differences were found between multiple sclerosis and spinal cord injured patients .
Result	Intrathecal baclofen may compromise erection and ejaculation .
Result	This effect is reversible .
Result	Patients should be informed of this effect .

Background	Patients with isolated supratentorial brain tumours , presumed to be primary on imaging , have two surgical management options - biopsy or resection .
Background	Surgical opinions appear to be equally divided when considering the relative risks and benefits of these two procedures .
Method	To estimate the clinical effectiveness of radical surgical resection compared to simple biopsy in patients with malignant glioma .
Method	Electronic database searches of COCHRANE CONTROLLED TRIALS REGISTER ( including the Cochrane Cancer Network Specialised Register of Trials ) , MEDLINE , CANCERLIT , EMBASE , BIOSIS and SCIENCE CITATION INDEX .
Method	Hand searching the references of all identified studies ; hand searching the Journal of Neuro-Oncology over the previous 10 years , including all conference abstracts ; personal communication .
Method	Randomised and clinical controlled trials were included if they compared biopsy to resection , or looked at effect of extent of resection on survival , time to progression or quality of life , for malignant glioma patients of all ages .
Method	Studies were to be identified , critically appraised and data extracted by the author ( SEM ) .
Method	For dichotomous data , Peto odds ratios ( OR ) with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) were hoped to have been estimated .
Method	Normal continuous data were to have been summated using the weighted mean difference ( WMD ) .
Result	The electronic database search yielded 2100 citations .
Result	Of these , two articles were identified for possible inclusion , however both were excluded .
Result	The hand search and personal communication were similarly unproductive .
Result	No studies were included in the review and no data was synthesised .
Result	Given that no qualifying studies were identified and because this is an important issue , both in terms of patient risk and benefit and health economics , the author feels it important to conduct a randomised controlled trial in this subject .

Method	30 patients with whiplash injuries were treated with aural-acupuncture .
Method	The points were chosen according to a special programme .
Result	Acupuncture proved an effective form of therapy for treatment of accident patients with whiplash injuries , representing a valuable supplement to the field of rehabilitation .

Background	The influence of fish oil and safflower oil contained in the common Japanese diet as the main dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid source on plasma fatty acids in ten female student volunteers ( 21-22 years old ) was investigated .
Method	The subjects were divided into two groups and fed the experimental diets for five days .
Method	The total daily fat intake in the fish diet and safflower oil diet was 54.4 g and 56.2 g , respectively , and the fat derived from fish and safflower oil was 16 g and 23 g , respectively .
Result	The proportion of linoleic acid was reduced in the plasma of subjects fed the fish diet and increased in the plasma of subjects fed the safflower oil diet .
Result	The plasma levels of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) were significantly elevated in the fish diet group .
Result	The ratio of EPA/arachidonic acid ( AA ) was higher , and those of n-6 / n-3 and n-9 / n-3 were lower in the plasma of subjects fed the fish diet when compared to the results obtained from plasma of subjects fed the safflower oil diet .
Result	From these results , it seems likely that fish oil in the common Japanese diet is a favorable source of plasma EPA and DHA even in such short term supplementation and with such a small amount of daily consumption .

Background	Serum lipid responses to dietary modification are partly determined by genetic factors .
Method	The objective of the present study was to investigate the influence of the Pro12Ala polymorphism of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma2 ( PPAR-gamma2 ) gene on serum lipid and lipoprotein responses to n-3 fatty acid supplementation .
Method	A total of 76 men and 74 women ( age 49 + / -8 years , body mass index 26.5 + / -3.0 kg/m ( 2 ) ) participated in a controlled multi-center study .
Method	Subjects were randomly assigned to consume either fish oil supplements ( 3.6 g n-3 fatty acids/day containing 2.4 g of EPA and DHA ) or placebo capsules containing olive oil for 3 months .
Result	At baseline , the Pro12Ala polymorphism was not associated with serum total and lipoprotein lipid concentrations or lipoprotein lipase activity in the fasting state .
Result	After the 3-month study period , carriers of the Ala12 allele presented a greater decrease in serum triacylglycerol concentration in response to n-3 fatty acid supplementation than did subjects with the Pro12Pro genotype when the total dietary fat intake w
Result	Changes in serum total cholesterol , serum LDL cholesterol and HDL cholesterol concentrations were similar among the genotypes in the n-3 fatty acid supplementation group and in the placebo group .
Result	In conclusion , the Pro12Ala polymorphism of the PPAR-gamma2 gene may modify the inter-individual variability in serum triacylglycerol response to n-3 fatty acid supplementation .

Method	Seven hundred ninety-three patients had coronary artery bypass graft ( CABG ) surgery within 30 days after acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) between August 1982 and July 1987 .
Result	Hospital mortality was 5.7 % .
Result	Age , surgical priority , prior CABG surgery , congestive heart failure ( CHF ) , and type of AMI were associated with increased hospital mortality by logistic regression analysis of nine independent variables .
Result	When the analysis was carried out separately for men and women , the same predictive variables were identified for men , but only surgical priority and age were predictive of operative mortality for women .
Result	Elective CABG surgery can be carried out at low risk following AMI in stable patients regardless of the interval between AMI and surgery .
Result	Patients who undergo urgent or emergency surgery and those who have CHF , Q wave infarction , or a history of prior AMI are at increased risk .

Background	At the beginning of 1995 Israel implemented a health reform .
Background	A new National Health Insurance Law came into effect , mandating compulsory health insurance for all Israeli citizens .
Background	However , while the individual 's right to health services is grounded in law , the basket of services provided under this law includes no components that can contribute to oral health of the population .
Background	The country 's oral health system has always had minimal government involvement and relies largely on private funding .
Background	As such , it can serve as an appropriate model for observing the impact of such policy on economically weak population groups , and on the extent of system equity .
Background	The research goals were to examine gaps among various populations in service accessibility , knowledge and attitudes , preventive health behaviors , and perceived health within this unique oral healthcare system .
Method	The study population consisted of residents of Israel aged 22 + and living in the community -- approximately 4.5 million persons .
Result	The data were gathered through telephone interviews based on a random sampling of the computerized telephone directory of Israel 's domestic telephone company .
Result	The response rate was 82 % , with 1,067 respondents representing the adult population of Israel .
Result	The current study found significant gaps among income groups for knowledge , attitudes , preventive oral-health behaviors and perceived oral-health .
Result	The findings can serve as a red flag for over-reliance on private funding in the health system , and may indicate the need for rethinking about the current oral healthcare policy in Israel .

Background	Body weight ( BW ) mainly depends on a balance between fat storage ( lipogenesis ) and fat mobilization ( lipolysis ) in adipocytes .
Background	BW changes play a role in insulin resistance ( IR ) , the inability of insulin target tissue to respond to physiological levels of insulin .
Background	This results in inhibition of lipogenesis and stimulation of lipolysis .
Background	Weight gain leads to IR whereas , weight loss improves insulin sensitivity ( IS ) .
Method	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of weight loss and recovery of IS on the expression of genes involved in lipogenesis and lipolysis in weight losing dogs .
Method	Gene expression was studied in both subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue .
Method	Obese dogs received a hypoenergetic low fat high protein diet ( 0.6 x NRC recommendation ) .
Method	Before and after weight loss , IS was assessed using the euglycaemic hyperinsulinaemic clamp .
Method	Gene expression of IRS-2 , SREBP , intracellular insulin effectors , ACC , FAS , FABP , ADRP , PEPCK , lipogenesis key proteins , perilipin and HSL , lipolysis key proteins were quantified using real-time RT-PCR in subcutaneous and visceral fat .
Result	BW decreased from 15.2 + / - 0.5 to 11.4 + / - 0.4 kg ( p < 0.05 ) over 78 + / - 8 days .
Result	When obese , dogs were insulin resistant .
Result	After weight loss , IS was improved .
Method	In the subcutaneous adipose tissue , the expression of only the IRS-2 was increased .
Method	In the visceral adipose tissue , the expression of the genes involved in the lipogenesis was decreased whereas one of the genes implied in the lipolysis did not change .
Result	The expression profile of genes involved in lipid metabolism , as measured after weight loss , is indicative for a lower lipogenesis after weight loss than in obese dogs .
Result	Our results also confirm dramatic differences in the lipid metabolism of visceral and subcutaneous fat .
Result	They should be completed by comparing gene expression during weight losing and normal weight steady state .

Background	In this paper , we describe the conceptual bases and methodology used to assess women 's and providers ' perception of the quality of antenatal care , as part of a large randomised trial in four developing countries .
Background	Information has been obtained by applying both qualitative and quantitative methodologies .
Background	The focus group discussions and in-depth interviews have contributed useful insights into the cultural milieu in which care is provided , users ' and providers ' expectations , and their concept of quality .
Background	Based on these findings , we developed two standardised questionnaires , one being administered to a representative sample of pregnant women ( n = 1600 ) and the other for all care providers .
Background	In this paper we present some of the findings of the focus group discussions and in-depth interviews with women in one country as an example of the kind of information we have obtained .
Background	Women expressed their point of view concerning a reduced number of visits , type of provider , information that they get during clinical encounters and interpersonal relations with health professionals .
Background	The qualitative information , together with the data we obtain from the surveys , will highlight the aspects that will have be to considered if the new model of care is to be introduced on a routine basis.Measurement of the subjective dimension of the quali
Background	The World Health Organization ( WHO ) Antenatal Care Randomized Controlled Trial , underway in 53 clinics in Argentina , Cuba , Thailand , and Saudi Arabia , will apply both quantitative and qualitative methodologies to an assessment of client and staff satisfac
Background	Specifically , the study addresses user and provider perceptions of quality in the context of a wide spectrum of ethnic backgrounds , social strata , organization of health services , and medical cultures .
Method	The research instrument consists of questions that explore the preferences of 1600 women and their providers in terms of the number of prenatal care visits , provider type and gender , time spent in the waiting room and with the provider , and amount and app
Result	Preliminary results from focus groups and in-depth interviews indicate that women are concerned about the safety of the reduced number of visits during pregnancy ( four for low-risk women ) inherent in the experimental regimen , prefer to receive care from s
Result	Such qualitative information , together with data obtained from questionnaires , will highlight areas that must be addressed if the new prenatal care model is to be introduced on a routine basis.americasarab countriesargentinaasiabehaviorcaribbeancross sect

Background	Obesity is characterised by growth hormone ( GH ) abnormalities , including a blunted response to stimulation and a ` paradoxical ' increase after meals .
Background	The blunted GH release is reversed by a surgical intestinal bypass procedure .
Background	However , this does not mean that normal GH dynamics have been restored .
Background	The present study assessed whether post-surgical weight reduction in obese patients normalised the modulation of GH release produced by metabolic fuels .
Method	Ten obese female subjects , aged 23-54 y , were studied before and after biliopancreatic diversion ( BPD ) .
Result	All patients , after surgery , had experienced a significant reduction in body weight ( mean body mass index ( BMI ) 25.78 + / - 1.01 kg/m2 vs 44.68 + / - 1.73 kg/m2 ) .
Method	Two groups were also studied as controls : Ten normal body weight female subjects and ten patients suffering from anorexia nervosa ( AN , mean BMI 17.46 + / - 1.12 kg/m2 ) .
Method	We have studied the GH response to a GH releasing hormone ( GHRH ) bolus ( 1 microg/kg i.v. , at 13.00 h ) before and after a standard meal .
Result	In post-BPD subjects , the GH response to GHRH in the fasting state , was clearly augmented in comparison with the pre-BPD values ( peak values 18.06 + / - 4.56 vs 3.24 + / - 0.68 microg/L ) .
Result	In post-BPD subjects the postprandial GH response was further augmented in comparison with the fasting test ( peak 30.12 + / - 4.99 microg/L , P < 0.05 ) .
Result	This pattern was similar to that observed in anorexic patients .
Result	The surgical procedure restores a normal GH response to GHRH in the fasting state , but the ` paradoxical ' GH response after meals remains present , suggesting a persistent GH derangement in such patients , which is not related to body weight per se .
Result	The surgical procedure makes obese patients similar to anorexics , in the relationships between metabolic fuels and GH secretion .
Result	The persistence of the GH postprandial response to GHRH in post-BPD subjects suggests a role for metabolic fuels in the regulation of somatostatin ( SRIF ) secretion .

Background	Bone is the most common site of breast cancer metastases .
Background	Skeletal metastases may be associated with harmful and painful events such as fractures , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
Background	By inhibiting osteoclasts and bone resorption , bisphosphonates can interrupt the process of bone destruction and decrease the risk of skeletal complications .
Method	A review of the literature was undertaken regarding the use of bisphosphonates in breast cancer management , with particular attention to prospective , randomized clinical trials that have influenced the treatment of bone metastases .
Result	Large prospective , randomized trials have demonstrated that bisphosphonates are effective in reducing skeletal-related complications from metastatic breast cancer .
Result	For many patients with osseous lesions from breast cancer , bisphosphonate therapy is a useful intervention in managing their disease .
Result	Bisphosphonates are the treatment of choice for hypercalcemia of malignancy and bisphosphonates reduce the risk of pathologic fractures , spinal cord compromise , the need for radiation or surgery to bone , and bone pain .

Background	To determine the incidence , duration and symptoms associated with acute confusion/delirium among traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) neuro-rehabilitation admissions .
Method	Prospective evaluation of neurobehavioural impairments following TBI among inpatient neurorehabilitation admissions .
Method	Eighty-five consecutive TBI model system patients were evaluated using measures of orientation , cognition , motor restlessness and delirium .
Method	Fifty-nine individuals met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders -- Fourth Edition Delirium Diagnostic Criteria ( DDC ) on initial evaluation and 42 of these resolved delirium during inpatient rehabilitation .
Method	Multivariable logistic regression analyses revealed significant unique associations of the Galveston Orientation and Amnesia Test ( GOAT ) , Delirium Rating Scale , Cognitive Test for Delirium and time elapsed since injury with DDC status .
Result	Findings indicate that delirium is common among neuro-rehabilitation admissions with TBI .
Result	Use of a single measure ( e.g. GOAT ) will result in poor characterization of the multi-faceted symptom complex shown by patients with post-traumatic confusion .

Background	The authors performed an analysis of retrospectively obtained data to compare the outcomes of pediatric patients admitted to their institution for traumatic injuries resulting from car , motorcycle , and all-terrain vehicle ( ATV ) accidents .
Method	The authors conducted a retrospective review of Columbus Children 's Hospital 's Trauma Registry data collected between January 1993 and December 2003 .
Method	Data obtained in patients admitted with motor vehicle-related injuries were compiled for a total of 1608 patient records .
Method	Data regarding sex , age , hospital length of stay ( LOS ) , Glasgow Coma Scale ( GCS ) score , revised trauma score , injury severity score ( ISS ) , and use of a protective device were analyzed .
Method	Of 1608 patients , 1257 ( 78 % ) were injured in automobile accidents , 123 ( 7.6 % ) in motorcycle accidents , and 228 ( 14.2 % ) in ATV accidents .
Result	Injuries sustained in all vehicle types peaked during the summer months .
Result	Patients involved in automobile crashes presented with significantly lower GCS scores than those injured in motorcycle and ATV accidents ; however , there was no statistically significant difference in LOS among all three injury modalities .
Result	Protective devices were underutilized in all three motor vehicle categories but , when used , were associated with significantly higher GCS scores , ISSs , and shorter LOSs among patients admitted after automobile accidents .
Result	The correlation of seat belt use with better outcomes underscores the necessity to improve motor vehicle safety education for children , who are less likely to be restrained as they age .

Background	The use of antidepressants during pregnancy has undergone considerable scrutiny with respect to safety issues , though limited data with respect to dose management and symptom resolution is available .
Background	Previous reports on tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) have demonstrated the need to adjust maternal dose later in pregnancy to maintain therapeutic serum concentrations .
Background	However , there is no data on the dosage of selective serotonin uptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) required to maintain symptom resolution in women treated for major depression during pregnancy .
Method	The purpose of this study , then , was to assess the medication dosage requirements of SSRIs during this time .
Method	In this naturalistic study , pregnant women with a primary diagnosis of major depression were followed prospectively through pregnancy at monthly intervals with symptom assessment .
Method	Subjects were included in data analysis if they presented prior to 28 weeks gestation , were treated with SSRI monotherapy , received all psychiatric treatment during the pregnancy at the Emory Pregnancy and Postpartum Mood Disorders Program , and achieved e
Method	Medication selection was based on personal treatment history or family treatment history ( if any ) , and the published data on SSRIs in pregnancy .
Method	All medication dose adjustments were based on depressive symptoms as measured by the BDI and a psychiatric interview ( ZNS ) .
Method	Thirty-four pregnant women were included in final analysis .
Result	Two thirds of the subjects ( n = 22 ) required an increase in their daily dose of medication to maintain euthymia .
Result	The dose increases occurred at 27.1 + / - 7.1 weeks gestation , with mean BDI scores of 16.4 + / - 9.6 , compared to a mean treatment response BDI of 6.9 + / - 5.4 .
Result	Subject 's age , education , past personal and familial psychiatric history were not significantly associated with dose adjustment .
Result	These novel data on SSRI daily dose in pregnancy parallels the extant literature with tricyclic antidepressants ( TCA ) .
Result	Further work to determine the predictors of dose adjustments will provide guidelines for minimizing fetal exposure to both medication and maternal mental illness .

Background	Our genetic make-up , shaped through millions of years of evolution , determines our nutritional and activity needs .
Background	Although the human genome has remained primarily unchanged since the agricultural revolution 10,000 years ago , our diet and lifestyle have become progressively more divergent from those of our ancient ancestors .
Background	Accumulating evidence suggests that this mismatch between our modern diet and lifestyle and our Paleolithic genome is playing a substantial role in the ongoing epidemics of obesity , hypertension , diabetes , and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease .
Background	Until 500 generations ago , all humans consumed only wild and unprocessed food foraged and hunted from their environment .
Background	These circumstances provided a diet high in lean protein , polyunsaturated fats ( especially omega-3 [ omega-3 ] fatty acids ) , monounsaturated fats , fiber , vitamins , minerals , antioxidants , and other beneficial phytochemicals .
Background	Historical and anthropological studies show hunter-gatherers generally to be healthy , fit , and largely free of the degenerative cardiovascular diseases common in modern societies .
Result	This review outlines the essence of our hunter-gatherer genetic legacy and suggests practical steps to re-align our modern milieu with our ancient genome in an effort to improve cardiovascular health .

Background	Obstructive sleep apnea , a common indication for adenotonsillectomy in children , has been linked to behavioral morbidity .
Background	We assessed psychiatric diagnoses in children before and after adenotonsillectomy and examined whether baseline sleep apnea predicted improvement after surgery .
Method	Subjects of this prospective cohort study were children ages 5.0 to 12.9 years old who had been scheduled for adenotonsillectomy ( n = 79 ) or care for unrelated surgical conditions ( n = 27 , among whom 13 had surgery after baseline assessment ) .
Method	Before intervention and 1 year later , subjects underwent structured diagnostic interviews and polysomnography .
Method	The main outcome measure was frequency of DSM-IV attention and disruptive behavior disorder diagnoses at baseline and follow-up .
Result	At baseline , attention and disruptive behavior disorders were diagnosed in 36.7 % of adenotonsillectomy subjects and 11.1 % of controls ( p < .05 ) ; attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder was found in 27.8 % and 7.4 % , respectively ( p < .05 ) .
Result	One year later , group differences were nonsignificant ; attention and disruptive behavior disorders were diagnosed in only 23.1 % ( p < .01 ) , and 50 % of subjects with baseline attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder no longer met diagnostic criteria .
Result	Obstructive sleep apnea on polysomnography at baseline did not predict concurrent psychiatric morbidity or later improvement .
Result	Attention and disruptive behavior disorders , diagnosed by DSM-IV criteria , were more common before clinically indicated adenotonsillectomy than 1 year later .
Result	Surgery may be associated with reduced morbidity , even among subjects lacking polysomnographic evidence of obstructive sleep apnea .

Background	The aim of the study was to evaluate factors influencing quality of life ( QOL ) in Moroccan postmenopausal women with osteoporotic vertebral fracture assessed by the Arabic version of ECOS 16 questionnaire .
Method	357 postmenopausal women were included in this study .
Method	The participants underwent bone mineral density ( BMD ) measurements by DXA of the lumbar spine and the total hip as well as X-ray examination of the thoraco-lumbar spine to identify subclinical vertebral fractures .
Method	Patients were asked to complete a questionnaire on clinical and sociodemographic parameters , and osteoporosis risk factors .
Method	The Arabic version of the ECOS16 ( Assessment of health related quality of life in osteoporosis questionnaire ) was used to assess quality of life .
Method	The mean age was 58 + / - 7.8 years , and the mean BMI was 28.3 + / - 4.8 kg/m2 .
Method	One hundred and eight women ( 30.1 % ) were osteoporotic and 46.7 % had vertebral fractures .
Method	Most were categorized as Grade1 ( 75 % ) .
Result	Three independent factors were associated with a poor quality of life : low educational level ( p = 0,01 ) , vertebral fracture ( p = 0,03 ) , and history of peripheral fracture ( p = 0,006 ) .
Result	Worse QOL was observed in the group with vertebral fracture in all domains except `` pain '' : Physical functioning ( p = 0,002 ) ; Fear of illness ( p = 0,001 ) ; and Psychosocial functioning ( p = 0,007 ) .
Result	The number of fractures was a determinant of a low QOL , as indicated by an increased score in physical functioning ( p = 0,01 ) , fear of illness ( p = 0,007 ) , and total score ( p = 0,01 ) after adjusting on age and educational level .
Result	Patients with higher Genant score had low QOL in these two domains too ( p = 0,002 ; p = 0,001 respectively ) , and in the total score ( p = 0,01 ) after adjusting on age and educational level .
Result	Our current data showed that the quality of life assessed by the Arabic version of the ECOS 16 questionnaire is decreased in post menopausal women with prevalent vertebral fractures , with the increasing number and the severity of vertebral fractures .

Background	Changes in amplitude of the soleus H ( S ( H ) ) - reflex and its neurographic correlates ( P ( 1 ) and P ( 2 ) waves ) after vibration of the soleus muscle have been evaluated as a function of mechanical stimulation frequency , duration of the conditioning train , and te
Background	Additional experiments aimed at assessing the nervous system mechanisms underlying the postvibration depression ( PVD ) have been performed .
Method	In particular , homonymous ( S ( HMR ) or S ( H ) ) versus heteronymous ( S ( HTR ) ) soleus response , evoked respectively by tibial nerve and femoral nerve electrical stimulation , the effectiveness of sub-H threshold tibial nerve conditioning volleys on the S ( HTR ) , an
Result	It was found that PVD occurs in the absence of changes in amplitude of the P ( 1 ) wave and the S ( HTR ) , is paralleled by a reduced effectiveness of tibial nerve-conditioning volleys on the S ( HTR ) and is shortened consistently by brief passive stretching of t
Result	It follows that PVD may be the result of a long-lasting reduction of the transmitter release from Ia presynaptic terminals depending , at least in part , on a protracted postvibration Ia afferent discharge caused by spindles thixotropy .
Result	These findings may provide a better understanding of the pathophysiologic mechanisms underlying spasticity in humans .

Background	A debilitating consequence of complete spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is the loss of motor control .
Background	Although the goal of most SCI treatments is to re-establish neural connections , a potential complication in restoring motor function is that SCI may result in anatomical and functional changes in brain areas controlling motor output .
Background	Some animal investigations show cell death in the primary motor cortex following SCI , but similar anatomical changes in humans are not yet established .
Method	The aim of this investigation was to use voxel-based morphometry ( VBM ) and diffusion tensor imaging ( DTI ) to determine if SCI in humans results in anatomical changes within motor cortices and descending motor pathways .
Result	Using VBM , we found significantly lower gray matter volume in complete SCI subjects compared with controls in the primary motor cortex , the medial prefrontal , and adjacent anterior cingulate cortices .
Result	DTI analysis revealed structural abnormalities in the same areas with reduced gray matter volume and in the superior cerebellar cortex .
Result	In addition , tractography revealed structural abnormalities in the corticospinal and corticopontine tracts of the SCI subjects .
Result	In conclusion , human subjects with complete SCI show structural changes in cortical motor regions and descending motor tracts , and these brain anatomical changes may limit motor recovery following SCI .

Background	Endometriosis is a common clinical disorder in women and usually presents with pelvic pain , infertility , or adnexal masses secondary to intracystic hemorrhage with the formation of an endometrioma .
Background	Endometriosis shares certain characteristics with malignant neoplasms , and malignant ovarian tumours have been documented in women with endometriosis .
Background	Endometriosis-associated ovarian cancer ( EAOC ) usually occurs in younger women , has favourable outcomes , and appears as either a low-grade tumour of endometrioid cell type or as a clear cell tumour .
Background	As it has been suggested that the pathologic features of `` atypical endometriosis '' may constitute a precancerous state , women with atypical endometriosis may be at an increased risk of developing EAOC .
Background	There are no prospective randomized trials assessing treatment regimens for EAOC .
Background	Most women receive treatment similar to other epithelial ovarian cancers .
Background	However , women with EAOC represent a subgroup of patients that may require different therapeutic options .

Background	Infection with human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) is often accompanied by neurological complications .
Background	One of these includes disorders affecting the peripheral and visual nervous system , especially during the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome ( AIDS ) stage .
Background	The peripheral neuropathies associated with infection by HIV are an assorted group of disorders , which include acute or chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy , multiple mononeuropathy and neuropathies related to the herpes zoster virus or cytom
Background	The most common and clinically important of the neuropathies is painful distal sensory polyneuropathy ( DSP ) .
Background	The most severely affected cranial nerves are V and VII .
Background	The isolation of HIV from the affected nerves suggests a direct role , but an immune mechanism is also possible .
Background	Although cytomegalovirus may be associated with a variety of peripheral nerve syndromes , its clinical presentation as a primary demyelinating polyneuropathy is unusual .
Result	DSP and antiretroviral toxic neuropathy are the most common HIV-associated neuropathies .
Result	Both HIV infection , by itself , and the neurotoxicity of certain drugs in tritherapy contribute to the development of painful peripheral sensory neuropathy .
Result	In researching into the cause of HIV-associated neuropathy further studies are needed to determine the relative roles played by the viral infection and the activation of the immunological factors that contribute to the pathogenesis of the damage done in a

Background	Canine aggressive behaviour is one of the most common problems being reported by dog owners .
Background	However , the biochemical basis of this phenomenon remains unclear .
Background	In humans , alterations in omega-3 plasma polyunsatured fatty acids and elevated omega6/omega -3 ratio have been linked to behavioural alterations , including aggression .
Method	Thus far , however , the relationship between plasma polyunsatured fatty acid status and aggression has not been investigated in the dog .
Method	In the present study we sought to investigate whether polyunsatured fatty acid status could be altered in plasma of pathologically aggressive Canis familiaris .
Method	Eighteen adult male German Shepherd dogs , aged 4.9 + / - 0.9 years , showing no clinical signs but aggression , were investigated .
Method	Eighteen healthy male dogs , aged 4.8 + / - 0.7 years , with a negative history of behavioural and neurological disorders served as controls .
Method	Baseline fasting plasma polyunsatured fatty acid composition was determined by gas chromatography .
Result	Compared to normal dogs , aggressive dogs showed lower docosahexaenoic acid ( 22:6 n-3 ) concentrations and a higher omega6/omega -3 ratio .
Result	In addition , they showed reduced cholesterol and bilirubin concentrations compared to their normally behaving counterparts .
Result	Altogether , our results suggest that low omega-3 fatty acids may adversely impact behaviour in dogs , resulting in greater propensity to aggression .
Result	However , given the cross-sectional design of our study , we can not claim any causal relationship between the presence of alterations in fatty acid status and canine aggressiveness .
Result	Whether omega-3 fatty acids supplementation may be useful to reduce aggressive behaviour in the dog deserves further investigation .

Background	This study evaluated the ability of the Orientation Log ( O-Log ) to predict cognitive outcome at rehabilitation discharge , as well as future neuropsychological outcome .
Background	The hypothesis was that patients who demonstrated better orientation upon admission would achieve superior functional cognitive outcome at discharge and on subsequent neuropsychological assessment .
Method	Sixty individuals receiving inpatient rehabilitation following a new-onset TBI participated .
Method	Orientation data was collected using the O-Log during morning bedside rounds .
Method	Outcome data was collected at 6 and 12 months post-injury .
Result	Significant correlations were found between the O-log and measures of memory , executive functioning , basic verbal skills , and estimated intellectual ability .
Result	When compared to the other predictor variables , step-wise multiple regression analyses revealed that the minimum O-Log score was the primary significant predictor of performance on six neuropsychological and functional outcome measures .
Result	Results of this study suggest that evaluating orientation with the O-Log during acute rehabilitation may reflect level of injury severity and aid in predicting cognitive outcome .

Background	The guidelines of the German Orthopaedic Societies regarding the treatment of lateral elbow epicondylitis were analysed on the ground of recently published reviews or randomised placebo-controlled trials ( RCT ) .
Background	For the acute phase , reviews or RCTs failed to show a clinical effect beyond placebo if follow-up was extended over 6 weeks .
Background	For the chronic phase a current Cochrane review failed to identify any controlled trial regarding surgical procedures during the last decades .
Result	Without an adequate control group , it is not possible to draw any meaningful conclusions about the value of this modality of treatment .
Result	Therefore surgery is not indicated before repetitive low-energy extracorporeal shock wave therapy ( ESWT ) has been applied .
Result	This novel treatment , under strictly standardized conditions , showed effects beyond placebo in independent randomised placebo-controlled trials for follow-up periods of 3 and 6 months .
Result	To date there exists no evidence-based therapeutic algorithm for the treatment of acute and chronic tennis elbow .
Result	Even medium-term effects should be regarded as either a placebo effect or natural regression to the mean .

Background	Traction lesions of the brachial plexus are becoming more frequent .
Background	Many of the lesions involve avulsion of nerve roots from the spinal cord .
Background	This very often results in severe pain which is associated with deafferentation .
Background	Although reference to this pain and the difficulty in its management has been made in several reports in the literature , there has been no long-term study of the natural history of this pain and the effects of various attempts to mitigate it .
Method	This series reports on a long-term follow-up of 275 patients of which is 108 had evidence of avulsion lestions .
Method	Of these 108 , 98 suffered significant pain .
Result	There is a remarkably constant description of the pain and the various activities that may affect it .
Result	Drugs are of very limited use and the most valuable method of treatment found in this series was transcutaneous electrical stimulation -- although , only one-third responded dramatically to this treatment .
Result	The single most effective manoeuvre that reduces pain is absorption by the patient in work .
Result	There remains a significant number of young men with severe pain who may expect to suffer such pain indefinitely .
Result	There is urgent need for new methods to be developed to control this pain .

Background	Agmatine is an endogenous neuromodulator that , based on animal studies , has the potential for new drug development .
Background	As an endogenous aminoguanidine compound ( 1-amino-4-guanidinobutane ) , it is structurally unique compared with other monoamines .
Background	Agmatine was long thought to be synthesised only in lower life forms , until its biosynthetic pathway ( decarboxylation of arginine ) was described in the mammalian brain in 1994 .
Method	Human arginine decarboxylase has been cloned and shown to have 48 % identity to ornithine decarboxylase .
Method	In neurons of the brain and spinal cord , agmatine is packaged into synaptic vesicles and released upon neuronal depolarisation .
Background	Initially , agmatine was conceptualised as an endogenous clonidine-displacing
Background	In addition to activity at these receptors , agmatine irreversibly inhibits neuronal nitric oxide synthase and downregulates inducible nitric oxide synthase.Endogenous agmatine is induced in response to stress and/or inflammation .
Background	Stressful conditions that induce agmatine include hypoxic-ischaemia and cold-restraint stress of ulcerogenic proportion .
Background	Induction of agmatine in the brain seems to occur in astrocytes , although neurons also synthesise agmatine .
Method	The effects of injected agmatine in animals include anticonvulsant - , antineurotoxic - and antidepressant-like actions .
Method	Intraperitoneal or intracerebroventricular injections of agmatine rapidly elicit antidepressant-like behavioural changes in the rodent forced swim test and tail suspension test .
Method	Intraperitoneal injections of agmatine into rats and mice also elicit acute anxiolytic-like behavioural changes in the elevated plus-maze stress test .
Result	In an animal model of acute stress disorder , intraperitoneal agmatine injections diminish contextual fear learning .
Result	Furthermore , intraperitoneal injections of agmatine reduce alcohol and opioid dependence by diminishing behaviour in a rat conditioned place preference paradigm.Based on these findings , agmatine appears to be an endogenous neuromodulator of mental stress .
Result	The possible roles and/or beneficial effects of agmatine in stress-related disorders , such as depression , anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder , merit further investigation .

Background	Although there has been an increased interest in health care delivery for rural community populations , concerns remain regarding the lack of access to primary health care and specialty services ( such as palliative care ) , particularly in rural areas that a
Method	This survey was conducted to examine the perceptions of palliative care services in rural communities and toward identifying perceived barriers that interfere with accessing palliative care services .
Method	In conducting the study , personnel from various disciplines throughout the Community Cancer Care ( CCC ) network ( the largest private provider of oncology services in Indiana ) completed a survey that assessed their perceptions of the strengths and weaknesse
Result	These responses , which indicate discrepancies in perceptions among staff within sites , suggest problems of integration of palliative care in given locations .
Result	Results revealed three particularly problematic areas : accessing pain control , accessing psychological or psychiatric services or both , and overcoming barriers to hospice care .
Result	Although no significant differences were found for any variables between MU and adequately medically served ( AMS ) areas , in general palliative care is limited and unintegrated into oncology care .
Result	Confusion among staff at a particular oncology program likely contributes to the haphazard delivery and poor integration of palliative care .
Result	Conclusions are tempered by important study limitations but the results suggest the need for programs that improve delivery of palliative care in rural Indiana .

Background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) constitutes an important public health problem in Italy , evidenced by the high number of hospital admissions each year .
Background	Significant inter-hospital as well as interward differences in mortality rates for CHF patients that have been described may , in part , be explained by the differences in the severity of the illness of admitted patients .
Method	The goal of this study was to predict 30-day severity-adjusted mortality risk in patients with CHF admitted to wards of a teaching hospital in Siena , Italy , in 1997 .
Method	A 30-day mortality was determined by linking hospital discharge files with the Tuscany Mortality Registry database .
Method	The 3M all patient refined diagnosis related group ( APR-DRG ) software was used as a risk assessment method .
Result	The relationships between death and the following variables were studied by univariate analyses : APR-severity risk , APR-mortality risk , age , sex , length of stay and , discharge ward .
Result	Multivariate analysis was also performed to verify the associations between death and those parameters found to be significant by univariate analysis .
Result	Unadjusted mortality proportions ranged from 4.3 to 44.0 % .
Result	Logistic regression analysis demonstrated that APR-mortality risk , length of stay , and discharge ward were significantly and independently associated with 30-day mortality risk in patients with CHF .
Result	In summary , 30-day mortality risk varied significantly according to the ward of discharge in an Italian teaching hospital , even after adjustment for severity of illness .

Background	The purpose of this study was to assess grade , race , socioeconomic status and gender differences in perceptions of body size , weight concerns , and weight control practices between 4th and 7th grade students in South Carolina .
Method	Two random samples , consisting of a total of 1,597 children ( 53.1 % white , 51.97 % female , 44.9 % 4th graders ) participated in two questionnaire surveys .
Method	Both surveys included a series of seven female and seven male body size drawings , body image and weight concern questions , and questions pertaining to weight control practices .
Method	Responses to the questionnaire were analyzed using chi-square analysis and the General Linear Model .
Result	Using socioeconomic status ( SES ) , race , gender , and grade as independent variables , differences in ideal adult body size , opposite gender ideal adult body size , weight concerns , perceptions of family/peer weight concerns , perceptions of own body size and
Result	Analyses revealed that 4th grade males select a larger ideal adult body size and opposite gender ideal adult body size when compared to 7th grade males ( p < 0.0001 and p = 0.0078 , respectively ) .
Result	Fourth grade females indicated less personal concern about their weight than 7th grade females ( p = 0.0009 ) .
Result	Fourth graders also perceived less family/peer concern about weight than 7th graders ( p = 0.0027 ) and 7th graders described themselves as being more overweight than 4th graders ( p = 0.0039 ) .
Result	Blacks selected a significantly larger body size than white children for ideal adult ( p = 0.0287 ) and ideal opposite gender adult body size ( p < 0.0001 for males , p = 0.0030 for females ) .
Result	Blacks also perceived less personal and family/peer concern about weight when compared to whites ( p = 0.0083 ) .
Result	More whites reported that they were trying to lose weight , as compared to blacks ( p = 0.0010 ) .
Result	Males also selected significantly larger body size silhouettes than females for ideal adult body size ( p = 0.0012 ) .
Result	Males expressed less personal concern about weight ( p < 0.0001 ) , perceived less family/peer concern about weight ( p < 0.0001 ) , and were less likely than females to be engaged in weight loss ( p < 0.0001 ) .
Result	Females in the high SES category selected a significantly smaller ideal male adult body size than females in the low SES group ( p = 0.0124 ) and more females in the high SES category were trying to lose weight when compared to females in the low SES group
Result	This study indicates that early in a child 's sociocultural development , grade level , gender , race , and SES are influential in the perception of ideal adult body size and opposite gender ideal adult body size .
Result	These factors are also influential in determining concerns about weight and weight control practices .
Result	The findings of this study support the need to begin health and wellness education efforts early in childhood while taking into account racial , gender , age , and SES disparities .
Result	This knowledge can also be useful in targeting interventions for both obesity and eating disorders .

Background	Overall , this study demonstrates significant deficiencies in end-of-life care content in nursing textbooks .
Background	Defining palliative care , quality of life at the end of life , and issues of policy , ethics , and law are the foundation of end-of-life care .
Background	Analysis of these topics revealed a need to clarify concepts and to apply them within the context of end-of-life care .
Background	The analysis also demonstrated a need to transfer findings from palliative care research and concepts from hospice into basic education .
Background	In March 1999 the investigators convened a conference in New York in collaboration with a group of medical investigators analyzing EOL content in medical textbooks .
Background	The conference was also attended by publishers , editors , and authors of textbooks .
Background	The investigators were very encouraged by their interest in and commitment to correcting any weaknesses in their books .
Background	The investigators provided them with specific recommendations for improvement and resources for locating both appropriate content and authors with palliative care expertise .
Background	coh.org ) .
Background	Achieving the overall project goal of strengthened nursing education in end-of-life care will be reached through a variety of measures .
Background	Improving textbooks is but one important step .
Background	The various disciplines involved in palliative care can contribute to this project by working in collaboration with textbook publishers .

Background	There are 3 450 new cases of colorectal cancer in Norway annually .
Background	In half of the patients , metastatic disease will evolve with time .
Background	Palliative chemo - or radiotherapy can prolong disease - and symptom control when cure is not feasible .
Method	This paper is based on publications retrieved from a PubMed search , the authors ' knowledge of the field and on recent conference abstracts .
Result	Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer should initially be considered for surgery , and judged if secondary surgery is a possibility .
Result	Palliative chemotherapy is used to increase survival and maintain quality of life .
Result	5-FU/calsiumfolinat combined with oxaliplatin or irinotecan is usually given as first line treatment for patients below 75 years -- and most of them respond .
Result	Median survival is close to two years .
Result	Bevacizumab combined with an irinotecan regimen is an alternative first line treatment .
Result	Elderly patients are judged on an individual basis .
Result	Half of the patients will receive second line therapy with the alternative chemotherapy schedule .
Result	Cetuximab combined with irinotecan is a possible third line treatment .
Result	Palliative radiotherapy is most often used for inoperable rectal cancer , local recurrences , and bone or brain metastases .

Background	Public interest in the health benefits of seafood lipids , or of fish oils , is a most unusual phenomenon because for once the recommendations of health authorities to `` eat more fish '' are in accord with newer and popular attitudes .
Background	Media exploitation of the more sensational health aspects is also generally in favor of more consumption of seafood .
Background	The public is however still confused by the multitude of species of fish and shellfish available , and in a quandary over whether fatty fish are risky in terms of calories or cholesterol , or of more benefit than lean fish in terms of omega-3 fatty acids .
Background	Most direct questions on how much omega-3 fatty acids are useful in the diet of an average individual may never be answerable until long term studies with humans are carried out .
Background	It does appear that marine fish can be broken down into four convenient categories : lean ( including shellfish ) , low fat , medium fat and high fat ; and in this review it is suggested that these could contribute , per 100 grams , respectively about 250 , 750 , 1
Background	This intake can compare favorably with the alternative of commonly available fish oil capsules .
Result	Moreover this survey shows that at present the composite of total omega-3 fatty acids in fish and shellfish may contain roughly equal proportions of the functionally effective eicosapentaenoic acid , and of docosahexaenoic acid with its as yet unknown long

Background	An adolescent 15-yr-old male competitive gymnast presented to a university-based multidisciplinary spine institute with a persistent low-back pain for 18 mos .
Background	Although the results of x-rays were negative , his pain rendered him unable to compete in his sport any longer .
Background	A computed tomography scan was performed , which showed a bilateral pars fracture at L5 , without spondylolisthesis .
Background	A nuclear medicine bone scan revealed negative findings , confirming chronic nonunion .
Background	The patient completed a 4-wk course of physical therapy 6 mos before our intervention , without any relief of pain or radiologic evidence of healing .
Method	The patient was treated with a bone stimulator for 4 hrs/day and was recommended to wear a warm-and-form-type brace .
Method	Isometric core trunk exercises were also initiated .
Result	Only after 6 wks of treatment , the subject showed clinical improvement at the follow-up visit .
Result	Computed tomography scan performed 12 wks after the initial scan showed complete union of the fracture correlating with clinical improvement .
Result	Two years later , the athlete remains completely pain-free , is training regularly , and is able to compete on a national and , possibly , international level .

Background	Five patients ( 4 women ) with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and primary major psychiatric disorder ( PMPD ) meeting DSM-IV criteria for the diagnosis of bipolar affective disorder ( BAD ) were studied .
Method	Four patients had early onset PD .
Result	Four developed a severe psychiatric disorder a few years after starting dopaminergic therapy in presence of a mild motor disability and a mild cognitive impairment , with no evidence of cerebral atrophy at CT or MRI .
Result	Two patients developed a clear manic episode ; the other three presented a severe depressive episode ( in one case featuring a Cotard syndrome ) .
Result	None showed previous signs of long term L-dopa treatment syndrome ( LTS ) , hallucinosis or other minor psychiatric disorders .
Result	The two manic episodes occurred shortly after an increase of dopaminergic therapy and in one case rapid cyclic mood fluctuations were observed .
Result	At the onset of psychiatric symptoms , all patients had an unspecific diagnosis of chronic delusional hallucinatory psychosis ( CDHP ) .

Background	The aim of the study was to achieve earlier diagnosis of malignant cord compression ( MCC ) using urgent magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) for selected patients .
Method	A comparison was carried out of the current prospective audit of 100 patients referred by a general practitioner or a consultant over 32 months with both a previous national Clinical Research and Audit Group ( CRAG ) prospective audit ( 324 cases of MCC ) and
Method	A telephone hotline rapid-referral process for patients with known malignancy and new symptoms ( severe nerve root pain + / - severe back pain ) was designed .
Method	Patients were considered for urgent MRI after discussion with a senior clinician responsible for the hotline .
Method	Appropriate referrals were discussed with radiology and oncology ensuring timely MRI reporting and intervention .
Method	The main outcome measures are as follows time from referral to diagnosis ; time from the onset of symptoms to diagnosis ; and mobility at diagnosis .
Result	A total of 50 patients ( 52 % ) of those scanned had either MCC ( 44 ) or malignant nerve root compression ( 6 ) compared with the earlier rate of 23 out of 104 patients ( 22 % ) .
Result	Ten out of 44 MCC patients ( 23 % ) were paralysed at diagnosis , compared with 149 out of 324 ( 46 % ) in the CRAG audit .
Result	Time from reporting pain to diagnosis was 32 days compared with 89 days in the CRAG audit .
Result	Median time from referral to diagnosis was 1 day , again considerably shorter than the CRAG audit time of 15 days ( interquartile ( IQ ) range : 3-66 ) .
Result	In patients at risk of MCC , fast-track referral with rapid access to MRI reduces time between symptom onset and diagnosis , improves mobility at diagnosis and reduces the number of negative MRI scans .

Background	Many treatments are available for whiplash-patients , but to date , no evidence exists for their effectiveness .
Method	The objective of this systematic review was to assess the efficacy of conservative treatment in patients with whiplash-injuries ( rated as Whiplash-Associated Disorders [ WAD ] I or II ) .
Method	A computerized literature search of Medline , Embase , Cinahl , Psychlit and the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register through June 1998 was carried out .
Method	We also screened reference lists of publications of identified randomized trials and relevant systematic reviews .
Method	Studies were selected for inclusion if they fit the following criteria design was a ( randomized ) clinical trial ( RCT ) ; all patients had suffered a whiplash-injury ; the type of intervention was a conservative one ; pain , global perceived effect , or participation in daily activities was used as one of the outcome measures ; and the publication was written in English , French , German or Dutch .
Method	The methodological quality of the studies was independently assessed by two reviewers using the Maastricht-Amsterdam list .
Method	Three quality scores were calculated using this criteria list the Overall methodological Quality Score , the Internal Validity Score and the Delphi Quality Score .
Method	The conclusion of the review was based on articles that scored a quality score of at least 50 percent of the maximum available score on two out of three quality scores .
Method	Eleven studies met the inclusion criteria .
Result	A broad variety of conservative interventions were evaluated , and only one study was performed in chronic whiplash patients .
Result	Only three studies satisfied at least 50 percent on two out of three quality scores indicating poor overall methodological quality .
Result	A high rank correlation was observed among the three methods of quality .
Result	Because of the heterogeneity of patient selection , interventions and outcome measures , no statistical pooling was performed .
Result	This review indicates that active treatments show a beneficial effect on at least one of the primary outcome measures , preferably pain .
Result	In other words , rest and immobilization using collars are not recommended for the treatment of whiplash , while active interventions , such as advice to ` maintain usual activities ' might be effective in whiplash
Result	Nevertheless , caution is needed when attempting to draw conclusions regarding the efficacy of conservative treatments in whiplash-patients , because of the paucity of high-quality studies .
Result	No conclusions can be drawn about the most effective therapy for chronic whiplash-patients because only one low quality trial was identified .

Background	Active infection with herpes zoster may cause acute urinary retention , especially when it involves sacral dermatomes .
Background	Although frank retention usually develops days to weeks after eruption of the typical rash , bladder incompetence infrequently develops first , raising concern over other , more ominous etiologies .
Background	In the case presented , rash appearance was delayed until six weeks after the initial onset of urinary retention , a much longer interval than previously reported .
Result	Occult herpes zoster infection should be considered in patients presenting with an acute neurogenic bladder of obscure cause .

Background	The new non-benzodiazepine hypnotic , zopiclone , was investigated as a preanaesthetic medication in a randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled study in healthy patients scheduled for minor gynaecological surgery .
Background	Initially a dose-finding study was conducted in which zopiclone 3.75 mg , 7.5 , and 11.25 mg was compared with diazepam 10 mg and placebo ; 7.5 mg was established as the optimum dose of zopiclone .
Result	In the main study zopiclone 7.5 mg was comparable to diazepam 10 mg at 20 , 40 , and 60 min after administration and more efficacious at 90 min .

Background	Vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) result in severe and disabling pain , diminished quality of life , and substantial medical costs .
Background	There exists no standard instrument with which to measure pain and functional status before and after treatment of VCFs .
Method	A questionnaire was specifically developed to assess pain and disability in patients with VCFs before and after undergoing percutaneous polymethylmethacrylate-augmented vertebroplasty .
Method	The first section of the baseline questionnaire ( before treatment ) contains 11 items that address the patient 's previous and current levels of back pain and distress .
Method	The follow-up questionnaire ( after treatment ) is similar in format .
Result	Among 72 vertebroplasty-treated patients , the internal consistency reliability of the 24 ADLs ranged from 0.87 to 0.98 , with similar results observed before and after treatment .
Result	Correlations of 0.29 to 0.72 were observed among the 24 ADLs and the internal measures of pain and distress measured on both visual analog and adjectival scales .
Result	Similar correlations ( range 0.35-0 .63 ) were observed between the questionnaire and 10 dimensions of the Oswestry Disability Index 's low-back pain questionnaire , an external instrument used to assess criterion-referenced validity .
Result	Evidence in support of the validity of the questionnaire was present before and after treatment .
Result	The Vertebral Compression Fracture Pain and Functional Disability Questionnaire appears to be a reliable and valid instrument for assessing back pain and functional ability in patients before and after treatment for VCFs .

Result	We have described motor control in people with different degrees of SCI by using surface polyelectromyographic recordings during single - and multijoint volitional motor tasks .
Result	We have shown that neurobiologic conditions of the injured spinal cord can be expressed in two main categories : `` new anatomy '' and `` reduced anatomy '' .
Result	The evidence for a variety of definite features of motor control elicited by volitional effort for the performance of a present or even clinically absent motor task suggests that we can benefit from animal experimental neurobiologic studies while we are p
Result	Reports on the successfully enhanced regenerating capabilities of the axons and improved connectivity within neuronal circuits after SCI encourage us to intensify our efforts in parallel with studies on the recovery processes found in experimentally induc

Background	A major goal of the second International Workshop on `` Brain Uptake and Utilization of Fatty Acids , Lipids and Lipoproteins : Application to Neurological Disorders '' was the identification of important future research areas that would lead to accel
Result	Major themes identified for future research include the following : ( 1 ) Rigorous research protocols for fatty acid ( FA ) studies should be established to overcome errors introduced by small differences in chain length and degree of unsaturation .
Method	( 2 )
Result	Using cellular integration models consisting of endothelial cells , astrocytes , and neurons , investigation of functional lipidomics , cell-specific signaling by lipids , and nutritional considerations should be undertaken .
Method	( 3 )
Result	Educational programs should be undertaken for women of childbearing age on the health benefits of omega3 long chain ( LC ) polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) from fish consumption vs risks of mercury in fish .
Method	( 4 )
Result	Studies of the `` flip-flop '' model of passive diffusion should be extended to include other quantitative measures , such as the sizes of different fatty acid pools .
Method	( 5 )
Result	Investigations to establish physiologic roles and concentrations of omega3 LC-PUFA in various compartments of the brain should be undertaken .
Method	( 6 )
Result	Further studies should be carried out to illuminate the role and behavior of tight junctions in the microvascular endothelium of the blood-brain barrier and astrocytes , with emphasis on developing new LC-PUFA and lipid-based carriers of biomolecules acros
Method	( 7 )
Result	Roles and localization of very low density lipoproteins , low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , and the LDL receptor in the brain and their interactions with omega3 LC-PUFA , cholesterol , apolipoprotein E1-4 , and their derivatives in Alzheimer 's disease ( AD ) shoul
Method	( 8 )
Result	Investigation of intraneuronal synthesis of DHA and its effects on signal transduction , apoptosis , and neurite growth stimulation should be undertaken .
Method	( 9 )
Result	Nutrition-based behavioral affects of EPA and DHA , particularly with respect to the omega6 : omega3 FA ratio , gene regulation , neurodevelopment , and conversion to bioactive molecules by cyclooxygenases ( COX ) and lipoxygenase , should be explored .
Method	( 10 )
Result	Further assessment of brain lipid metabolism and neurodevelopment should be performed in DHA-deficient rodent models , including the use of imaging techniques .
Method	( 11 )
Result	Potential toxic effects of COX overexpression and the possible consequences of DHA over-supplementation in various neurological and neurodevelopmental disorders should be characterized .
Method	( 12 )
Result	The relationship between LC-PUFA , stroke , and AD should be clarified , and neurogenetic metabolic diseases that could benefit from supplementation with omega3 LC-PUFA such as DHA should be identified .

Background	Clearly , changes in skeletal bone mass are one of the major issues of potential clinical concern in the health care of the thin premenopausal woman .
Background	Each of the three parameters of skeletal mass -- 1 ) initial pubertal growth , 2 ) rate of bone loss , and 3 ) superimposed estrogen-deficient osteoporosis -- may be negatively influenced by syndromes associated with low body weight and weight loss .
Background	Inherent in constitutional thinness and nutritional patterns of thin women are alterations in bone growth and rates of bone loss which may predispose to osteopenia and fracture in later adulthood .
Background	When these negative factors are compounded by hypothalamic/pituitary-mediated hypoestrogenism , decreased initial bone mass and true osteoporosis may result .
Background	We now possess excellent radiographic tools for monitoring bone mass but do not have the capability to predict fracture or diagnose osteoporosis .
Background	Urgently needed are longitudinal prospective studies of the dynamics of both trabecular and cortical bone growth and epidemiologic correlation as to the clinical impact ( fractures ) of decreased BMD in thin women .
Background	For the present , a physiologically oriented program directed toward prophylaxis -- maximizing initial bone mass , decreasing rates of adult bone loss , and minimizing active osteoporosis -- embracing early dietary calcium supplementation and hormonal therapy on
Background	Indeed , this bodily `` disease '' of osteopenia may not be a pathologic process of bone metabolism at all , but truly an `` ailment of the spiritual part '' -- secondary manifestations of sociologic and endocrinologic alterations inherent in the

Background	Proteomic technologies offer a high-throughput analysis of the expression of proteins in biological samples .
Background	The global analysis of the proteins in peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) fluid will provide a better understanding of the biological processes of the peritoneal membrane .
Method	The dialysate of nine paediatric PD patients was collected from peritoneal equilibrium tests with 3.86 % glucose .
Method	Proteins were separated on a 10 % SDS-PAGE gel and in-gel digested with trypsin .
Method	Peptide mixtures were analysed using nanoLC-MS/MS and results were searched against the NCBI database .
Result	A total number of 189 proteins were identified in the PD fluid of nine patients , with 88 proteins shared by all patients .
Result	These 88 proteins accounted for 47 % of the identified proteins and > 90 % of the total protein content in the analysed samples .
Result	Proteins were subdivided into eight different classes according to function .
Result	This study gives a representative overview of the proteins present in PD fluid .
Result	The proteins in PD fluid reflect plasma proteins as well as local peritoneal processes .
Result	Potentially interesting proteins are revealed .

Background	Acute or chronic neck pain can arise from degenerative processes , musculoskeletal trauma , or structural changes .
Background	For all patients presenting with neck pain , determining the presence of radiculopathy or myelopathy is an important step in initial assessment .
Background	Depending on the duration of pain , the work-up should include appropriate use of traditional and advanced imaging studies .
Background	For cases that do not suggest traumatic , structural , or rheumatologic origins , alternate considerations should include stress , depression , and -- because of its increased incidence in older persons -- cancer .
Background	Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents , mild oral analgesics , and short-term corticosteroid therapy are the mainstays of treatment , although physical therapy and traction can be helpful for some patients .
Background	The presence of a herniated disk , cord compression ( severe stenosis ) , tumor , or other structural lesion may require surgical decompression .

Background	There is increasing realization among health care administrative decision makers and service providers that we must measure the true value of expensive services by demonstrating the achievement of identified goals .
Method	The objective of this study was to determine whether clients who received the home-based intervention for a hip arthroplasty would result in a more timely discharge home from hospital .
Method	Two hundred and eight clients receiving a total hip replacement at two acute care hospitals comprised the sample .
Method	One hospital included the more costly home-based pre-operative teaching by an occupational therapist as part of its protocol while the other provided comparative occupational therapy intervention within its hospital based pre-admission clinic .
Method	Discharge disposition and length of hospital stay were measured .
Method	Though no significant difference in either of these outcomes was found , a number of issues were raised indicating the complexity of resource allocation to this client population and the importance of the qualitative dimensions of care .
Result	The location for pre-operative teaching for total hip replacements was not found to impact the length of hospital stay nor whether clients are discharged directly home .

Method	STUDY DESIGN : Case report .
Background	To report a novel management strategy for neuropathic pain management after spinal cord injury .
Method	Outpatient spinal cord injury ( SCI ) clinic .
Method	The patient demonstrated two neuropathic pain syndromes , namely at - and below-level pain .
Method	These syndromes were recalcitrant to conservative measures and a decision was made to proceed with intrathecal therapies .
Result	The patient 's at-level pain was responsive to intrathecal hydromorphone but the below-level pain was unaffected by this intervention .
Result	Intrathecal ziconotide provided an opposite response with a positive effect observed on the below-level pain and minimal effect on the at-level pain .
Result	The combination of intrathecal ziconotide and hydromorphone provided effective relief for both components of the patient 's SCI associated neuropathic pain .
Result	The combination of intrathecal ziconotide and hydromorphone has the potential to provide significant pain relief for patients with neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury .

Background	Lung transplantation has emerged as an option to prolong and increase the quality of life in patients with end-stage pulmonary lung disease .
Background	In lung transplant recipients , because of the high potential for acute and chronic allograft rejection , optimal selection , dosage and delivery of immunosuppressive medications is critical .
Background	Cystic fibrosis ( CF ) , a multi-organ system disease that often includes pulmonary and gastrointestinal manifestations , represents the leading indication for bilateral lung transplantation .
Background	The gastrointestinal manifestations of CF , however , confound post-transplant management by causing significant variation in the rate and extent of absorption of orally administered immunosuppressive medications .
Background	Tacrolimus , a new calcineurin inhibitor , is increasingly employed as the primary immunosuppressive agent in lung transplant recipients .
Background	Unfortunately , tacrolimus itself exhibits variable bioavailability , particularly in CF transplant recipients .
Background	A novel approach to the absorption dilemma is administration of tacrolimus via the sublingual ( SL ) route .
Background	Little published information exists concerning the use of SL immunosuppression in transplant recipients .
Background	However , emerging evidence suggests that SL tacrolimus provides is an effective means of drug delivery particularly for CF lung transplant recipients .
Result	Preliminary results from a pilot study , demonstrate that SL delivery of tacrolimus achieves therapeutic serum levels , in lung transplant recipients with CF , over the first few postoperative months .
Result	In addition , the early postoperative use of SL tacrolimus has been associated with acceptable rates of transplant rejection and normal renal function in a cohort of 22 lung transplant recipients that included CF and non-CF transplant recipients .
Result	Potential pharmacokinetic advantages of the SL route of delivery include good permeability , rapid absorption , acceptable bioavailability and easy accessibility .
Result	From an economic standpoint , considerable cost savings could be achieved by using the SL rather than the intravenous route of drug delivery for tacrolimus .
Result	Comparative , prospective randomized trials are necessary to evaluate the long-term safety and efficacy of SL tacrolimus in lung transplant patients .
Result	Until such data are available , the use of SL tacrolimus should be considered in situations where alternative routes of delivery are unavailable or as part of ongoing research studies .
Result	Ultimately , SL tacrolimus may prove efficacious for short-term use in the early postoperative lung transplant recipients , particularly in patients with malabsorption problems such as CF transplant recipients .

Background	CF is a kind of diterpenoid which was first isolated and purified from Chinese tropical plants by our laboratory .
Background	Our previous works have demonstrated it could inhibit the proliferation of several malignant tumor cell lines and stimulate them to differentiate to normal cells .
Background	In this article we investigated the effect of CF on human hepatocellulor carcinoma HepG2 cell viability , differentiation , cell cycle distribution and G1 cell cycle related genes expression .
Background	We also detected the effect of retinoic acid ( RA ) which was used as positive control and the effect of combination CF+RA .
Result	Our data suggested that CF could be useful to induce growth arrest and differentiation in HepG2 cell lines , and could reverse the transformed phenotype .
Result	This anti-tumor effect was due to G1 arrest in cell cycle which was associated with an increase of p27 ( Kip1 ) and a decrease of cyclin D1 expression , so CF might be a useful targeted therapy strategy for HCC .
Result	Results also showed RA has a different mechanism from CF on G1 arrest , and CF has not synergistic anti-tumor effect with RA on HepG2 treatment .

Background	The aim of this study was to see whether results of anterior interbody lumbar fusion could be improved with the help of an external transpedicular device .
Method	Anterior interbody lumbar fusion was carried out in 83 patients , using the technique described by Suzuki .
Method	Fifty-six ( 67 % ) patients were fused with the Magerl-Schläpfer external fixator device as a posterior support .
Method	Twenty-seven patients had interbody fusion and a conventional plastic brace for support .
Method	The clinical and radiological results of anterior interbody lumbar fusion were compared between these groups .
Method	The mean follow-up time was 5 ( range , 2-10 ) years .
Method	A total of 128 levels were fused .
Method	There were no statistical differences in the clinical and radiological results between patients fused with or without the external fixator .
Result	There were many complications associated with the use of an external fixator device .
Result	We do not recommend the use of an external fixator in anterior interbody lumbar fusion .

Background	BioMarine 570 is well tolerated agent supporting the innate immunity .
Background	It was isolated from Greenland shark liver .
Method	To evaluate the effect of BioMarine .
Method	The 10 healthy , randomly chosen volunteers are included to the protocol .
Method	Volunteers are given 9 capsules of BioMarine a day for 30 days .
Method	The clinical and laboratory parameters were analyzed before and after the treatment .
Method	The following innate immunity parameters were analyzed C1q , C3 C4 and CH50 of complement level , CD4/CD8 ratio , Th1/Th2 cytokine polarization , reactive oxygen intermediates production ( ROI ) .
Result	Clinically no side effects were noted .
Result	BioMarine intake has increased the C1q level , increase CD4/CD8 ratio from 1.3 to 1.8 and polarized Th1/Th2 lymphocyte cytokine secretion towards Th1 .
Result	The modulation of ROI production by neutrophils was also noted .
Result	BioMarine has no affect on CD4 + CD25 + regulatory lymphocytes .
Result	Concluding BioMarine is save , effective and innate immunity supporting agent , can be effectively applied in people with disturbed immune system as harmless and effective agent normalizing the immune imbalance .

Background	A study was undertaken of 46 patients ( 19 cervical and 27 lumbar ) admitted to an inpatient rehabilitation unit following surgical decompression for myelopathy or cauda equina syndrome resulting from spinal stenosis ( SS ) .
Background	Individuals with SS represented 16 percent of all spinal cord injury ( SCI ) admissions .
Result	When compared to patients with traumatic SCI , patients with SS were significantly ( t-test , p < .01 ) older ( mean age 68 versus 39 years ) , more frequently retired/unemployed ( 89 percent versus 43 percent ) , more often married ( 57 percent versus 36 percent
Result	Significant ( p < .01 ) Functional Independence Measurement ( FIM ) changes for the SS patients were noted after rehabilitation in the categories of self-care , sphincter control and mobility/locomotion .
Result	Additionally , outcome comparisons with a group of traumatic SCI patients who had similar motor function revealed similar lengths of stay , discharge FIM scores and discharge-to-community rates .
Result	This study suggests that individuals with weakness secondary to SS represent a significant proportion of individuals with SCI , make significant functional gains following inpatient rehabilitation and can achieve functional outcomes similar to those of tra

Method	Using chart-review procedures , the authors examined the management of patients with a recognized alcohol problem in 12 medical facilities and 20 alcoholism programs throughout Alaska .
Background	The evaluation , which covered a one-year period , focused on the service delivery system rather than on treatment outcome , and sought to determine if problems of alcohol abuse were being solved .
Result	The authors found that a treatment plan was developed , followed up , and evaluated for 8 per cent of the problem drinkers treated in medical facilities and for 16.7 per cent of those in alcohol programs .

Background	Patients with severe decompensated congestive heart failure ( CHF ) commonly exhibit acid-base and electrolyte disturbances mainly due to the activation of several neurohumoral mechanisms as well as to drugs regularly used in this population .
Background	Magnesium deficit is not infrequently observed in CHF patients but its pathophysiology remains less well-studied as compared with other electrolyte alterations , such as hypokalemia .
Background	However , there is evidence that early detection and correction of magnesium abnormalities could obviate potentially deleterious arrhythmogenic effects .
Method	To assess the incidence of magnesium level disorders and analyze the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms in patients with CHF .
Method	Eighty-six consecutive CHF patients ( NYHA class III or IV ) admitted to our hospital over a period of 5 years were studied .
Method	Patients with diabetes mellitus , liver or renal failure , and chronic obstructive lung disease were excluded .
Method	All patients received conventional treatment with digoxin , diuretic agents and an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor .
Method	On admission , blood and urine electrolytes and renal function parameters were determined .
Method	Arterial blood gases and serum anion gap determinations were also performed .
Result	Hypomagnesemia was found in 15 [ n = 15 ( 17.4 % ) ] CHF patients .
Result	The majority of these patients also exhibited other electrolyte abnormalities , such as hypokalemia , hypocalcemia and hypophosphatemia .
Result	Inappropriate magnesiuria ( fractional excretion of magnesium > 4 % ) was evident in eight hypomagnesemic patients .
Result	A variety of associated conditions , including poor dietary intake , also favored magnesium depletion .
Result	Magnesium deficit is a common electrolyte disorder in CHF ( NYHA class III/IV ) patients and several interrelated mechanisms are implicated in its pathogenesis .
Result	Clinicians ' awareness of the incidence of hypomagnesemia in this population as well as its related pathophysiology could be useful for the early detection and appropriate treatment to inhibit its arrhythmogenic potential .

Background	To determine whether persistent metabolic dysfunction in normal-appearing frontal lobe tissue is correlated with long-term tissue atrophy .
Method	Prospective monitoring with retrospective data analysis .
Method	Single-center academic neurointensive care unit .
Method	Fifteen patients with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( Glasgow Coma Scale score 3-12 ) .
Method	None .
Method	Hourly cerebral microdialysis was performed for the initial 96 hrs after trauma to determine extracellular levels of glucose , glutamate , glycerol , lactate , and pyruvate in normal appearing frontal lobes .
Result	Six months after injury , the anatomical outcome was assessed by measures of global and regional cerebral atrophy using volumetric brain magnetic resonance imaging .
Result	The lactate/pyruvate ratio was elevated > 40 after traumatic brain injury in most patients , with a mean percent time of 32 + / - 29 % of hours monitored .
Result	At 6 months after traumatic brain injury , there was a mean frontal lobe atrophy of 12 + / - 11 % and global brain atrophy of 8.5 + / - 4.5 % .
Result	The percentage of time of elevated lactate/pyruvate ratio correlated with the extent of frontal lobe brain atrophy ( r = -.56 , p < 0.01 ) , but not global brain atrophy ( r = -.31 , p = 0.20 ) .
Result	The predictive effect of lactate/pyruvate ratio was independent of patient age , Glasgow Coma Scale score , and volume of frontal lobe contusion .
Result	Persistent metabolic crisis , as reflected by an elevated lactate/pyruvate ratio , in normal appearing posttraumatic frontal lobe , is predictive of the degree of tissue atrophy at 6 months .

Method	We examined the relationship between daytime symptoms and respiratory disturbance indices during sleep in 60 patients with sleep apnea syndrome who had an apnea index of more than 5/hr for at least one night .
Result	Daytime hypersomnolence , morning headache , and a history of traffic accidents did not correlated strongly with apnea index or with nocturnal desaturation .
Result	The same was true of daytime blood pressure and nocturnal micturition .
Result	Both hemoglobin concentration and the mean pulmonary arterial pressure in the daytime correlated significantly with indices of nocturnal desaturation and not with apnea index , but this might reflect the positive correlation between those variables and the
Result	These data suggest that diagnostic criteria should not be based on apnea index or desaturation alone .
Result	Long-term follow-up data on Japanese patients is needed to establish more rational diagnostic criteria and stage classification for sleep apnea syndrome .

Background	This report by The Swedish Council on Technology Assessment in Health Care ( SBU ) reviews , classifies , and grades the scientific literature on cancer chemotherapy in some major tumour types , describes the practice of chemotherapy in Sweden , compares practi
Background	The report is intended primarily for decision-makers at various levels , both practitioners and administrators .
Background	It is also of interest for the medical profession .
Method	The extensive body of scientific literature was reviewed according to strict criteria that reflected the scientific weight of the literature .
Method	Sixteen experts representing different disciplines ( oncology , surgery , internal medicine , health economy and quality of life research ) participated in the literature review .
Method	Each section was discussed within the project group and was reviewed by at least one , but usually two international researchers .
Method	Additional input was provided by national experts representing different scientific disciplines .
Method	For the final evaluation to be as close to the objective truth as possible , a concerted effort was made to guarantee objectivity and thorough assessment of current knowledge about the effects of chemotherapy on the selected cancers .
Method	The tumour types selected for this assessment include firstly those types where three investigations had shown an increased use of chemotherapy in Sweden during the latest decade .
Method	These were non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , gastric cancer , pancreatic cancer , colorectal cancer and urinary bladder cancer .
Method	Secondly , the two tumour types comprising the greatest number of patients treated with chemotherapy in Sweden , breast cancer and haematological malignancies , were included .
Method	Among the haematological malignancies , the most prevalent ones , acute myeloid leukaemia ( AML ) , chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( CLL ) , Hodgkin 's disease ( HD ) , aggressive non-Hodgkin 's lymphoma ( NHL ) of the large B-cell type and indolent NHL of follicular type were evaluated .
Method	These constitute about 75 % , of all haematological malignancies .
Method	Thirdly , ovarian cancer was included since chemotherapy has been extensively used and since , at the time of the planning of this overview , a group of very expensive drugs , the taxanes , had preliminarily shown promising results .
Method	A wealth of scientific literature has been published on cancer therapy .
Method	The review presented in this report is limited to scientific studies judged to be important for evaluating chemotherapy efficacy .
Method	Assessments of the content and quality of these studies , and a critical summary of the results in all stages of the selected tumours , have never before been attempted in this way .
Method	However , similar comprehensive overviews of certain stages of the tumours have previously been made .
Method	These overviews were also critically evaluated .
Method	Totally 1,496 studies involving 558,743 patients were reviewed .
Method	The survey of practice of chemotherapy use involved all departments of surgery , urology , gynaecology , internal medicine including haematologic units , pulmonary medicine and general and gynaecologic oncology at 16 hospitals in two health care regions in Sw
Method	During the 4 weeks of the survey , all patients with the diagnoses concerned who received chemotherapy were registered .
Method	The study included 1,590 patients .
Method	The working group 's general conclusions are summarised in the following points
Result	The literature on the effects of chemotherapy is extensive .
Result	Chemotherapy has a well-documented role in the curative and palliative treatment of patients with several types of cancer .
Method	The use of chemotherapy is of utmost importance for the possibility of cure in certain tumour types .
Result	In other tumours , chemotherapy increases the possibility of cure when added to local and regional treatments , particularly surgery .
Result	In the instances of no possibility of cure , chemotherapy may to a variable extent improve both patient survival and well-being .
Result	In Sweden chemotherapy is largely used in accordance with that documented in the scientific literature .
Result	The extent of both over - and under-treatment seems to be limited but can not be excluded at the individual patient level .
Result	The literature-based knowledge is scientifically of lower quality in the most chemotherapy sensitive tumours than in tumours showing more limited sensitivity .
Result	In the more sensitive tumours , positive effects on a symptomatic stage and survival were seen several decades ago .
Result	In those days , clinical treatment studies did not fulfil the current high quality requirements .
Result	Small life-prolonging effects of chemotherapy are sometimes very well documented in large , high quality scientific studies .

Background	Bioethics , and indeed much ethical writing generally , makes its point through narratives .
Background	The religious parable no less than the medical teaching case uses a simple story to describe appropriate action or the application of a critical principle .
Background	While powerful , the telling story has limits .
Method	In this paper the authors describe a simple teaching case on `` end-of-life '' decision making that was ill received by its audience .
Background	The authors ill-received example , involving the disconnection of ventilation in a patient with ALS ( Lou Gherig 's Disease ) was critiqued by audience members with long-term experience as ventilation users .
Method	In this case , the supposedly simple narrative of the presenters conflicted with the life histories of the audience .
Result	The lessons of this story , and the conflict that resulted , speak critically to the limits of simple teaching cases as well as the strengths of narrative analysis as a tool for the exploration of bioethical case histories.analytical approachbioethics and p

Background	Vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) may be defined radiographically or as a clinical event .
Background	The prevalence of these fractures in women aged 50 and over has been estimated at 26 % when defined as a reduction in vertebral height greater than 15 % .
Background	Retrospective reviews of case records have shown a clinical detection rate of VCF in white women of 153/100 ,000 person years .
Background	Of these clinically detected VCFs , 84 % were associated with pain .
Background	VCF may be defined as a clinical event characterised by loss of height and acute pain .
Background	The pain of acute fracture usually lasts 4 to 6 weeks with intense pain at the site of fracture .
Background	Chronic pain may also occur in patients with multiple compression fractures , height loss and low bone density but is probably due to structural changes or osteoarthritis .
Background	Radiographic VCF may not be symptomatic .
Background	The greater the deformity , the greater the likelihood of pain and disability .
Background	As height is lost , patients experience discomfort from the rib cage pressing downward on the pelvis .
Background	Patients develop a thoracic kyphosis , a lumbar lordosis , and a protuberant abdomen with prominent horizontal skinfold creases .
Background	The reduced thoracic space may result in decreased exercise tolerance and reduced abdominal space may give rise to early satiety and weight loss .
Background	Sleep disorders may also occur .
Background	Patients lose self esteem .
Background	Self care may become difficult .
Background	They are often depressed .
Background	They become fearful of further fracture .
Background	They have distorted body image and poor health perception .
Background	Patients with one vertebral fracture are at increased risk of peripheral fracture and further vertebral fracture .
Background	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	Tizanidine hydrochloride , an alpha ( 2 ) - adrenergic receptor agonist , is a widely used medication for the treatment of muscle spasticity .
Background	Clinical studies have supported its use in the management of spasticity caused by multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , acquired brain injury or spinal cord injury .
Background	It has also been shown to be clinically effective in the management of pain syndromes , such as : myofascial pain , lower back pain and trigeminal neuralgia .
Method	This review summarizes the recent findings on the clinical application of tizanidine .
Method	Our objective was to review and summarize the medical literature regarding the evidence for the usefulness of tizanidine in the management of spasticity and in pain syndromes such as myofascial pain .
Method	We reviewed the current medical and pharmacology literature through various internet literature searches .
Method	This information was then synthesized and presented in paragraph and table form .
Result	Tizanidine hydrochloride is a very useful medication in patients suffering from spasticity caused by MS , acquired brain injury or spinal cord injury .
Result	It can also be helpful in patients suffering from chronic neck and/or lower back pain who have a myofascial component to their pain .
Result	Doses should be started at low dose and gradually titrated to effect .

Background	Substantial research shows less favorable body-image experiences among overweight and obese persons relative to persons of average weight .
Method	The purpose of this investigation of body image was to compare 102 enrollees in a commercial , very-low-calorie diet program to 258 age - and weight-matched control subjects .
Result	Whereas enrollees were more strongly invested in their physical appearance , they held a more disparaging view of their looks .
Result	Relative to the control group , enrollees also felt less healthy , yet their evaluation of and investment in their physical fitness were more positive .
Result	Obese persons constitute a heterogeneous population , and those who seek rapid and extensive weight loss in commercial programs may have special body-image concerns and needs .

Background	The 14th myelographically demonstrated case of lumbosacral nerve root avulsion is presented with a summary of the previously reported cases .
Background	In most cases lumbosacral nerve root avulsion is associated with pelvic fractures and sacroiliac dislocation , which cause a stretching force to be applied to the nerves of the lumbar and sacral plexuses , and in turn to the nerve roots intradurally .
Background	This force causes nerve root avulsion in the intradural course of the nerve root .
Background	The myelographic defect is a pseudomeningocele or diverticulum-like outpouching created by the tearing of the arachnoid covering of the nerve roots .
Background	Myelography clearly indicates nerve root avulsion and surgical exploration is not indicated .

Background	To detect breast cancer susceptibility gene ( BRCA1 ) mutation in ovarian cancer and to look for correlations between BRCA1 mutation and hereditary ovarian cancer .
Method	Mutation of BRCA1 gene in 4 patients with hereditary ovarian cancer and 31 patients with sporadic ovarian cancer were screened by polymerase chain reaction-single strand conformation polymorphism analysis with non-isotopic silver staining method .
Result	2 mutations of BRCA1 gene were found in 2 of 3 patients belonged to hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrom ( HBOC ) which were located in exon 2 and 21 respectively .
Result	No mutation was found in 31 cases of sporadic ovarian cancer and 1 case of hereditary site-specific ovarian cancer .
Result	BRCA1 mutation was probably closely related to hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome .
Result	Detection of BRCA1 gene mutation was helpful to diagnose HBOC families .

Background	To compare the outcome of second and third cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer to the outcome of first attempts at IVF with blastocyst transfer .
Method	Retrospective study .
Method	Private ART center .
Method	Three hundred and four patients undergoing treatment with in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer , 87 of which underwent at least one cycle of re-treatment after failing to achieve pregnancy in their first cycle .
Method	Bipronucleate oocytes were grown for up to 144 hours and subsequently transferred when at least one embryo attained the expanded blastocyst stage .
Method	Pregnancy and implantation rates .
Result	Pregnancy rates per retrieval were significantly higher for patients undergoing their first cycle of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer ( 36 % ) compared to those undergoing their second ( 19 % ) or their third ( 9 % ) cycles of treatment .
Result	Implantation rates per embryo were also higher for first cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer ( 30 % ) compared to second ( 18 % ) or third cycles ( 8 % ) .
Result	Pregnancy and implantation rates decline dramatically in repeated cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer following one or more unsuccessful cycles of in vitro fertilization with blastocyst transfer .

Background	Spontaneous cervicocephalic artery dissection ( sCAD ) of more than two cervical arteries is rare .
Method	Vascular and potential sCAD risk factors , triggering events , clinical and neuroimaging findings , and outcome of patients with multiple sCAD were studied .
Method	Patients were drawn from prospective hospital-based sCAD registries .
Method	Of 740 consecutive patients with sCAD , 11 ( 1.5 % ) had three , and one had four ( 0.1 % ) sCAD .
Method	Eight of these 12 patients were women .
Result	One patient had additional dissections of the celiac trunk and hepatic artery .
Result	Vascular risk factors included hypertension ( n = 1 ) , hypercholesterolaemia ( n = 6 ) , current smoking ( n = 5 ) and migraine ( n = 6 ) .
Result	No patient had a family history of sCAD , fibromuscular dysplasia ( FMD ) or connective tissue disease .
Result	SCAD was preceded by a minor trauma in five and infection in four patients .
Result	Clinical manifestations included ischaemic stroke ( n = 8 ) , transient ischaemic attack ( n = 3 ) , headache ( n = 9 ) , neck pain ( n = 4 ) , Horner syndrome ( n = 5 ) , pulsatile tinnitus ( n = 2 ) and dysgeusia ( n = 1 ) .
Result	Brain MRI revealed ischaemic infarcts that affected one vessel territory in seven and two territories in two patients .
Result	The 3-month outcome was favourable ( modified Rankin scale score 0-1 ) in 10 patients ( 83 % ) .
Result	No new recurrent stroke or sCAD occurred during a mean follow-up of 50 ( SD 29 ) months .
Method	Multiple sCAD occurred preferentially in women and caused clinical symptoms and signs mainly in one vascular territory .
Method	In none of the patients was FMD or any other underlying arteriopathy apparent .
Method	The majority of multiple sCAD was preceded by a minor trauma or infection .
Result	Clinical outcome was favourable in most patients , and long-term prognosis benign .
Result	The data suggest that transient vasculopathy may be a major mechanism for multiple sCAD .

Background	We report here the first direct functional evidence of an increase in the tonic activation of postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors by antidepressant treatments .
Background	Because 5-HT1A receptor activation hyperpolarizes and inhibits CA3 pyramidal neurons in the dorsal hippocampus , we determined , using in vivo extracellular recording , whether the selective 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY 100635 could disinhibit these neuron
Result	Unexpectedly , no disinhibition could be detected in controls .
Result	However , after long-term treatment with the tricyclic antidepressant imipramine , the selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor paroxetine , the reversible monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor befloxatone , the alpha2-adrenergic antagonist mirtazapine , or the 5-HT1A recept
Result	Such a disinhibition was absent in rats treated with the nonantidepressant drug chlorpromazine , in rats receiving only one ECS , or in rats receiving multiple ECSs in combination with an intrahippocampal pertussis toxin treatment to inactivate Gi/o-coupled
Result	These data indicate that such antidepressant treatments , acting on entirely different primary targets , might alleviate depression by enhancing the tonic activation of forebrain postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors .

Background	Ovarian cancer is the fourth most common cancer in women in the Western world .
Method	In a pilot scale study , we highlight changes in the total serum glycome of patients with advanced ovarian cancer that might shed insight into disease pathogenesis .
Background	These changes include increases in levels of core fucosylated , agalactosyl biantennary glycans ( FA2 ) and sialyl Lewis x ( SLe ( x ) ) .
Method	To investigate further which proteins contribute to these alterations , we developed technology to analyze simultaneously the glycosylation of protein glycoforms contained in single spots excised from a 2D gel ( < 1 ng protein ) .
Result	The acute-phase proteins , haptoglobin , alpha1-acid glycoprotein , and alpha1-antichymotrypsin from patients contained elevated levels of subsets of glycoforms containing SLe ( x ) .
Result	We also established that IgG heavy chains from patients contained twice the level of FA2 compared with healthy controls .
Result	Serum CA125 is the only biomarker that is used routinely , and there is a need for complementary markers that will improve both sensitivity and specificity .
Result	There was some preliminary indication that combinations of changes in the serum glycome might improve the separation of ovarian cancer and benign tumors ; however , a larger study using data receiver operating characteristic curves will be required to draw

Background	The aim of the present study was to investigate the role of transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 ( TRPV4 ) in mediating mechanical allodynia in rodent models of chronic compression of the dorsal root ganglion ( CCD ) .
Method	First , the levels of TRPV4 mRNA and protein expression in the dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) were assessed using real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting analysis respectively at 7 , 14 , and 28 days post-CCD .
Method	Then , the effects of spinal administration of TRPV4 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide ( ODN ) and mismatch ODN on CCD-induced mechanical allodynia were evaluated .
Method	Lastly , the calcium responses to hypotonic solution and 4alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate ( 4alpha-PDD ) were assessed following sham surgery , CCD , spinal application of TRPV4 antisense ODN and mismatch ODN .
Result	The results showed that the levels of TRPV4 mRNA and protein expression increased significantly at 7-28 days post-CCD when compared with the sham group , with the highest level at 7 days post-CCD .
Result	TRPV4 antisense ODN , but not mismatch ODN , partly reversed the CCD-induced mechanical allodynia .
Result	Additionally , TRPV4 antisense ODN had no effect on the baseline nociceptive response .
Result	The percentage of DRG neurons responsive to hypotonic solution and 4alpha-PDD and the fluorescence ratio of calcium response were also enhanced significantly in both the CCD group and the mismatch ODN group .
Result	These increased responses were significantly inhibited by TRPV4 antisense ODN .
Result	In conclusion , TRPV4 plays a crucial role in CCD-induced mechanical allodynia .

Background	There are two bradykinin receptor subtypes , designated B1 and B2 .
Background	Whilst both have been implicated in nociception , it is believed that there is a low level of constitutive expression of B1 receptors and that their expression is induced by inflammation or tissue damage .
Method	The present study investigated the role of B1 receptors in spinal nociceptive processing using an in vivo electrophysiological assay in decerebrate , spinalized rabbits , a species that shares close B1 receptor homology with the human receptor .
Method	Inflammation was induced in the paw by an injection of complete Freund 's adjuvant at least 1 h before recording single motor unit activity of the semitendinous/biceps femoris muscle in response to a noxious pinch of the foot .
Method	Control animals received an intraplantar injection of saline .
Method	The peptide B1 receptor antagonist B9858 was administered i.v. and caused dose-dependent and complete inhibition of the nociceptive spinal reflex ( ID50 = 1 mg x kg ( -1 ) ) .
Result	In control animals without paw inflammation , B9858 had no effect .
Result	These findings are consistent with other evidence that peptide B1 receptor antagonists inhibit spinal nociceptive reflexes only after induction of B1 receptors by inflammation and support the potential therapeutic utility of B1 receptor antagonists as ana

Background	To identify factors associated with specific categories of charges during acute inpatient rehabilitation treatment after traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Method	Prospective observational study .
Method	A single Traumatic Brain Injury Model Systems ( TBIMS ) center .
Method	Eighty-four consecutive TBIMS patients .
Method	One exploratory analysis also included all 350 patients with TBI admitted during 1999 .
Method	Not applicable .
Method	Average daily charges for specific categories of resource use ( eg , room and board , rehabilitation therapies , functional labs ) .
Result	Room and board and rehabilitation therapy accounted for almost 90 % of average daily charges .
Result	There was no linear component of change in average daily charges , but certain categories of charges were significantly higher during the first week than thereafter .
Result	Functional status at rehabilitation admission correlated with charges for respiratory , medical , and surgical supplies and with pharmacy and radiology , but not the other categories .
Result	Specific medical variables also correlated with specific charge categories .
Result	Focused chart reviews of patients with low and high charges in specific categories led to the formulation of additional predictive hypotheses .
Result	Certain categories of charges correlated with functional scores and acute medical variables that are known before admission to acute inpatient rehabilitation , allowing for better inpatient admission planning under prospective payment .
Result	Further research is needed to identify and correlate resource use that is bundled within the room and board category .

Background	The sinoatrial ( SA ) and atrioventricular ( AV ) nodes are specialized centers of the heart conduction system and are composed of muscle cells with distinctive morphological and electrophysiological properties .
Result	We report here results of immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase studies on the bovine heart showing that a large number of SA and AV nodal cells share a distinct type of myosin heavy chain ( MHC ) which is not found in other myocardial cells and can thus
Background	The antibody used in this study was raised against fetal skeletal myosin and reacted with fetal skeletal but not with adult skeletal MHCs .
Result	Both atrial and ventricular fibers , as well as fibers of the ventricular conduction tissue were unlabeled by this antibody .
Result	Specific reactivity was exclusively seen in most cells in the central portions of the SA and AV nodes and rare cells in perinodal areas .
Result	However , a number of nodal cells , particularly those located in the peripheral nodal regions , were unreactive with this antibody .
Result	The myosin composition of nodal tissues was also explored using two antibodies reacting specifically with alpha-MHC , the predominant atrial isoform , and beta-MHC , the predominant ventricular isoform .
Result	Most nodal cells were reactive for alpha-MHC and a number of them also for beta-MHC .
Result	Variation in reactivity with the two antibodies was also observed in perinodal areas : at these sites a population of large fibers reacted exclusively for beta-MHC .
Result	These findings point to the existence of muscle cell heterogeneity with respect to myosin composition both in nodal and perinodal tissues .

Method	An 11-month-old infant presented with acute urinary retention .
Background	He had presented 3 months earlier with complaints of an enlarging abdominal mass that was initially diagnosed as a mesenteric cyst on ultrasonography .
Background	Voiding cystourethrogram revealed a large bladder diverticulum .
Result	Bladder diverticulum should be a differential diagnosis in children , especially male , presenting with urinary retention , fever and an abdominal mass .

Background	Metastatic bone disease is a frequent cause of morbidity in advanced cancer patients with a subsequent high incidence of skeletal complications ( fractures , hypercalcemia , spinal cord compression ) and severe pain .
Background	The osteolytic process is mainly characterized by an osteoclastic activity of bone resorption and inflammatory activity provoked by various cytokines and prostaglandins .
Background	Bisphosphonates represent a new class of drugs with inhibitory activity on bone resorption and on inflammatory processes which revealed themselves to be efficacious in a series of clinical conditions such as tumour-induced hypercalcemia , Paget 's disease ,
Method	The aim of this review of the literature is to show the analgesic efficacy of the different bisphosphonates in phase III studies carried out on patients with metastatic bone disease .
Method	Medline and Cancerlit database from January 1984 to February 1998 have been considered .
Result	From the analysis of the published studies it appears that bisphosphonates and , in particular , intravenous Disodium Pamidronate , are not only able to slow down the progression of the disease and to reduce the onset of skeletal complications but also have
Result	Bisphosphonates represent a further valid therapy to add to an already consolidated list of therapies such as radio , chemo and endocrine therapy , analgesic drugs , orthopaedic and physiatric in the pain management of patients with bone metastases .
Result	These drugs meet with the patients ' compliance , are well-tolerated as well as having a good cost/efficacy profile .
Result	It still remains to be seen if the newer and more potent bisphosphonates such as Ibandronate and Zoledronate can be administered differently from the intravenous route such as by mouth or by patch which are readily accepted by the patient and , moreover , i

Background	The authors assessed changes over time in antidepressant utilization among elderly subjects regarding the prevalence of antidepressant users , shifts in prescription patterns , and related financial implications .
Method	The authors conducted a population-based study of more than 1.4 million Ontario residents aged 65 years or older .
Method	Cross-sectional data regarding annual antidepressant utilization were obtained from administrative databases for 1993 to 1997 .
Method	Time series analysis was used to assess trends over time and to make future projections .
Result	The proportion of antidepressant users increased from 9.3 % of the elderly population in 1993 to 11.5 % in 1997 .
Result	Prescriptions for selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) accounted for 9.6 % of antidepressant prescriptions dispensed in the first 30 days of 1993 and 45.1 % of those dispensed by the last 30 days of 1997 and were projected to increase to approxim
Result	Prescriptions for tricyclic antidepressants fell from 79.0 % in the first 30 days of 1993 to 43.1 % by the last 30 days of 1997 and were projected to decline to approximately 28 % by the end of 2000 .
Result	Annual antidepressant costs ( in Canadian dollars ) increased by 150 % , from $ 10.8 million in 1993 to $ 27.0 million in 1997 .
Result	Population shifts and an increase in the prevalence of antidepressant users accounted for at least 20 % of this increase , whereas the prescribing transition from tricyclic antidepressants to SSRIs accounted for at least 61 % of the increase .
Result	The introduction of SSRIs has had a substantial financial impact at the drug utilization level .
Result	Future research should address the appropriate balancing of the cost of newer agents versus their ostensible advantages .

Background	Improved understanding of the pathophysiology of systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) opens new therapeutic avenues in its treatment .
Background	The efficacy of disease-modifying agents remains limited however , and none has yet demonstrated its ability to improve survival in a prospective randomized trial .
Result	of traditional antifibrotic agents such as colchicine and D-penicillamine are disappointing .
Result	Cyclophosphamide ( CYC ) seems to be beneficial in interstitial lung disease associated with SSc .
Result	Organ-specific therapies may produce dramatic benefits .
Result	Examples include angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors for renal failure and epoprostenol for primary pulmonary hypertension .
Method	Several new therapeutic approaches are currently under evaluation , including high-dose CYC followed by peripheral stem cell transplantation , vasodilators , and antiinflammatory and antifibrotic agents .
Result	Physical therapy and rehabilitation may help to treat disability and loss of function in SSc patients .

Method	The aim of this study was to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of glatiramer acetate ( GA ) for patients with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) who received active treatment versus those on placebo for approximately 30 months ( 24-35 months ) before receiving GA
Method	Entry required two relapses in the previous two years and an Expanded Disability Status Scale ( EDSS ) score of 0-5 .
Method	Patients ( 251 ) were equally randomized to daily subcutaneous GA , 20 mg , or to placebo .
Method	After approximately 30 months , 208 patients continued in an open label study 101 continued on GA and 107 switched from placebo to active drug .
Method	Groups were well matched at randomization and entry to the open label study .
Result	Patients always on GA showed a steady decline in relapses : a mean of 1.5 per year at entry , a mean of 0.42 over the entire six years ( 95 % CI = 0.34-0 .51 ) , a 72 % reduction ( P = 0.0001 ) .
Result	They averaged a relapse every four + years ( yearly rate 0.23 in year six ) and 26/101 remain relapse free .
Result	Patients did less well if on placebo for 30 months , but relapses then declined , and by year six the rates were similar .
Result	Of patients always on GA , 69 % showed neurological improvement of > or = 1 EDSS steps or remained stable compared with 57 % if GA treatment was delayed .
Result	Of relapse-free patients always on GA over six years , only three of 26 ( 11 % ) were worse by > or = 1 EDSS steps , whereas nine of 21 ( 43 % ) in the placebo/active group were worse ( P < 0.03 ) .
Result	Disability , measured every six months , showed that the group of patients always on GA was relatively stable over the six years , while the group who received placebo for the first two-and-a-half years did significantly less well .
Result	Daily injections of GA were well tolerated .
Result	This longest ever organized MS treatment trial shows that delaying therapy with GA increases the risk of neurologic disability , reinforcing the rationale for using GA as a first-line treatment early in the course of relapsing-remitting MS.

Background	Necrotizing enterocolitis ( NEC ) is a gastrointestinal emergency in neonates .
Background	Whether NEC affects infants ' growth and development is controversial .
Method	The purpose of this study was to explore the clinical characteristics and outcome and to assess the effect of NEC on growth and neurodevelopment in infants .
Method	A total of 80 neonates admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit from January 1991 to April 2002 with definite , advanced NEC , including 48 with modified Bell 's stage II and 32 with stage III .
Method	Sixty six of the patients were premature .
Method	Very low birth weight ( VLBW ) preterm infants without NEC were used as matching controls for the 15 infants with VLBW .
Method	The growth and neurodevelopment of patients and controls were assessed using the Bayley Scales of Infant Development-II and compared at 6 and 18 months of corrected age .
Result	NEC developed an average of 27.7 days after feeding began .
Result	The most common initial signs were abdominal distension , decreased activity , hematochezia , and abdominal tenderness .
Result	Thirty four patients ( 43 % ) required surgical intervention .
Result	Three infants developed short bowel syndrome after surgical resection .
Result	The overall mortality was 24 % ( 19/80 ) and was mostly associated with extensive bowel involvement and NEC-related sepsis or multiple organ failure .
Result	Of the surviving 61 infants , 12 ( 20 % ) developed intestinal strictures , 2 in the ileum , 6 in the colon , and 4 in both ileum and colon .
Result	Compared with controls , the VLBW infants with NEC were shorter and had delayed psychomotor development at 18 months of corrected age .
Result	Mental development , however , did not differ significantly .
Result	Intestinal stricture was the most common gastrointestinal complication in this series of infants with NEC .
Result	Besides the bowel sequelae , VLBW infants who survive NEC are at risk for impairment of growth and neurodevelopment .

Background	It is well established that cholecystokinin ( CCK ) reduces the antinociceptive effect of opioids .
Background	The level of CCK and CCK receptors , as well as CKK release , exhibits considerable plasticity after nerve injury and inflammation , conditions known to be associated with chronic pain .
Background	Such altered CCK release coupled in some situation with changes in CCK receptor levels may underlie the clinical phenomenon of varying opioid sensitivity in different clinical pain conditions .
Background	In particular , neuropathic pain after injury to the peripheral and central nervous system does not respond well to opioids , which is likely to be caused by increased activity in the endogenous CCK system .
Background	CCK receptor antagonists may thus be useful as analgesics in combination with opioids to treat neuropathic pain .

Background	The symptoms associated with lumbar spinal stenosis can decrease quality of life and may cause patients to seek treatment .
Background	Except in rare cases of rapid neurologic progression or cauda equina syndrome , nonsurgical modalities should be the initial treatment choice .
Background	Activity modification , a variety of medications , epidural steroid injections , and other methods are recommended for pain reduction .
Background	A formal physical therapy program , which focuses on flexion-based exercises , may lead to improved patientfunction .
Background	symptoms .
Background	Adequate decompression of the neural elements and maintenance of bony stability are necessary for a good surgical outcome for patients with spinal stenosis .
Background	Laminectomy has long been the method of choice for thorough lumbar decompression .
Background	Preserving at least the lateral half of the facet joints bilaterally and bone in the area of the pars interarticularis minimizes the potential for iatrogenic instability .
Background	Numerous other decompression techniques have been described , including multilevel laminotomies , fenestration , distraction laminoplasty , and microscopic decompression .
Background	Arthrodesis , either with or without instrumentation , is also indicated in some patients .
Result	Several studies report that surgical treatment produces better outcomes than nonsurgical treatment in the short term ; however , the results tend to deteriorate with time .
Result	Lumbar decompressive surgery can be complicated by epidural hematoma , deep venous thrombosis , dural tear , infection , nerve root injury , and recurrence of symptoms .

Background	To compare the accuracy of whole-body position emission tomography ( PET ) using [ 18F ] fluorodeoxyglucose ( FDG ) with conventional radiological imaging techniques in identifying operable colorectal cancer metastases to the liver .
Method	A double-blind comparative study of FDG-PET as the criterion standard vs conventional radiological imaging methods as the criterion standard , in staging of recurrent colorectal cancer .
Method	Institutional practice in a tertiary referral center .
Method	Thirty-four consecutive patients with suspected colorectal cancer metastases recruited for the study between May 1993 and October 1994 .
Method	Conventional radiological methods of cancer staging included abdominal computed tomography ( CT ) ( n = 34 ) , chest x-rays ( n = 15 ) , and chest CT ( n = 19 ) to evaluate extrahepatic disease .
Method	Twenty-seven patients were subsequently considered to have apparently isolated cancer metastases to the liver .
Method	Anatomical resectability was assessed by magnetic resonance imaging ( n = 24 ) or CT angiography ( n = 3 ) in all study patients .
Method	The FDG-PET studies ( n = 34 ) were performed within 8 weeks of conventional radiological imaging .
Method	Malignancy of suspected lesions detected by means of FDG-PET and conventional radiological imaging was confirmed by histopathologic examination of resected specimens and percutaneous biopsy specimens and by serial CT scans demonstrating progression of disease .
Result	Unsuspected extrahepatic malignant disease that was missed by conventional radiological imaging was detected by FDG-PET in 11 patients ( 32 % ) .
Result	The PET-detected extrahepatic malignant disease included retroperitoneal nodal metastases ( n = 6 ) , pulmonary metastases ( n = 3 ) , and locoregional cancer recurrences ( n = 2 ) .
Result	The additional information afforded by PET consequently had an influence on the clinical management in 10 patients ( 29 % ) .
Result	The FDG-PET method enabled selection of patients with apparently curable colorectal cancer metastases to the liver for hepatic resection .

Method	PEDIATRICS ( ISSN Numbers Print , 0031-4005 ; Online , 1098-4275 ) .
Background	Published in the public domain by the American Academy of Pediatrics.Speech and language development is a useful indicator of a child 's overall development and cognitive ability and is related to school success .
Background	Identification of children at risk for developmental delay or related problems may lead to intervention services and family assistance at a young age , when the chances for improvement are best .
Background	However , optimal methods for screening for speech and language delay have not been identified , and screening is practiced inconsistently in primary care .
Method	We sought to evaluate the strengths and limits of evidence about the effectiveness of screening and interventions for speech and language delay in preschool-aged children to determine the balance of benefits and adverse effects of routine screening in primary care for the development of guidelines by the US Preventive Services Task Force .
Method	The target population includes all children up to 5 years old without previously known conditions associated with speech and language delay , such as hearing and neurologic impairments .
Method	Studies were identified from Medline , PsycINFO , and CINAHL databases ( 1966 to November 19 , 2004 ) , systematic reviews , reference lists , and experts .
Method	The evidence review included only English-language , published articles that are available through libraries .
Method	Only randomized , controlled trials were considered for examining the effectiveness of interventions .
Method	Outcome measures were considered if they were obtained at any time or age after screening and/or intervention as long as the initial assessment occurred while the child was < or = 5 years old .
Method	Outcomes included speech and language measures and other functional and health outcomes such as social behavior .
Method	A total of 745 full-text articles met our eligibility criteria and were reviewed .
Method	Data were extracted from each included study , summarized descriptively , and rated for quality by using criteria specific to different study designs developed by the US Preventive Services Task Force .
Result	The use of risk factors for selective screening has not been evaluated , and a list of specific risk factors to guide primary care physicians has not been developed or tested .
Result	Sixteen studies about potential risk factors for speech and language delay in children enrolled heterogeneous populations , had dissimilar inclusion and exclusion criteria , and measured different risk factors and outcomes .
Result	The most consistently reported risk factors included a family history of speech and language delay , male gender , and perinatal factors .
Result	Other risk factors reported less consistently included educational levels of the mother and father , childhood illnesses , birth order , and family size .
Result	The performance characteristics of evaluation techniques that take < or = 10 minutes to administer were described in 24 studies relevant to screening .
Method	Studies that were rated good to fair quality reported wide ranges of sensitivity and specificity when compared with reference standards ( sensitivity 17-100 % ; specificity 45-100 % ) .
Method	Most of the evaluations , however , were not designed for screening purposes , the instruments measured different domains , and the study populations and settings were often outside of primary care .
Method	No `` gold standard '' has been developed and tested for screening , reference standards varied across studies , few studies compared the performance of > or = 2 screening techniques in 1 population , and comparisons of a single screening technique across different populations are lacking .
Method	Fourteen good - and fair-quality randomized , controlled trials of interventions reported significantly improved speech and language outcomes compared with control groups .
Result	Improvement was demonstrated in several domains including articulation , phonology , expressive language , receptive language , lexical acquisition , and syntax among children in all age groups studied and across multiple therapeutic settings .
Result	Improvement in other functional outcomes such as socialization skills , self-esteem , and improved play themes were demonstrated in some , but not all , of the 4 studies that measured them .
Result	In general , studies of interventions were small and heterogeneous , may be subject to plateau effects , and reported short-term outcomes based on various instruments and measures .
Result	As a result , long-term outcomes are not known , interventions could not be compared directly , and generalizability is questionable .
Result	Use of risk factors to guide selective screening is not supported by studies .
Result	Several aspects of screening have been inadequately studied to determine optimal methods , including which instrument to use , the age at which to screen , and which interval is most useful .
Method	Trials of interventions demonstrate improvement in some outcome measures , but conclusions and generalizability are limited .
Result	Data are not available addressing other key issues including the effectiveness of screening in primary care settings , role of enhanced surveillance by primary care physicians before referral for diagnostic evaluation , non-speech and language and long-term

Background	Adrenoleukodystrophy , a sex-linked peroxisomal disorder that results in the impaired oxidation of long-chain saturated fatty acids and causes neurologic impairment , is a rare cause of Addison 's disease in children .
Background	Adrenomyeloneuropathy is the name given to a biochemically identical but milder and more slowly progressive variant of adrenoleukodystrophy that affects young adults , in whom adrenal insufficiency may long precede nervous system dysfunction .
Background	The transmission of adrenomyeloneuropathy , like that of most cases of adrenoleukodystrophy , is sex-linked .
Background	Because of a preponderance of male patients among a group of patients with the onset of adrenal failure in childhood , we questioned whether this condition might be the initial manifestation of adrenomyeloneuropathy .
Result	We therefore measured the plasma concentrations of very-long-chain saturated fatty acids in eight patients with adrenal insufficiency ; of these , five had elevated plasma hexacosanoic acid concentrations ( range , 2.42 to 6.43 mumol per liter ; mean normal le
Result	Magnetic resonance imaging showed clear evidence of brain involvement in all five patients .
Result	Reexploration of the family histories revealed additional missed cases .
Result	We conclude that the possibility of adrenomyeloneuropathy should be considered in any boy with Addison 's disease .

Background	The aim of this prospective study is to evaluate the efficacy of a less invasive approach for the operative treatment of lumbar canal stenosis .
Method	Using transmuscular dilatation this technique minimises surgical trauma .
Method	Through a working channel with a 11 mm outer diameter and under operative microscope guidance , decompression of the neural elements can be achieved .
Method	From November 1998 to December 2001 38 consecutive patients with a mean age of 73.2 years were operated upon using this technique .
Method	The study included 56 lumbar segments .
Method	The mean follow up was 32 ( 18-55 ) months .
Method	The Visual Analogue Scale ( VAS ) for back and leg pain together with the Oxford Claudication Score ( OCS ) were used to assess the functional results .
Result	The average operating time for one level decompression was 74 minutes and the average blood loss was 32 ml/patient .
Result	Two patients ( 5.2 % ) required revision by open surgery .
Result	The OCS improved from 29.4 preoperatively to 16.9 postoperatively ( p < 0.001 ) .
Result	VAS for back pain and leg pain also showed a significant improvement ( p < 0.001 ) .
Result	This less invasive approach is effective in decompressing lumbar canal stenosis .
Result	It has the advantage of early mobilisation and a short hospital stay , especially in elderly patients ( mean age here : 73.2 years ) .

Background	Health care for the elderly in the United States remains fragmentary and noncomprehensive despite concern for the needs of an expanding elderly population and a new emphasis on geriatrics .
Background	Model health care programs for the elderly have been few and not generally applicable to central city populations .
Background	A model health care program has been designed to offer a continuum of comprehensive , multidisciplinary health care to Milwaukee elderly .
Background	An acute care unit for the elderly , rehabilitation-oriented nursing home , outpatient clinic , home care service , outreach clinics , rehabilitation day hospital , Alzheimer 's Disease Day Care program , and acute geriatric psychiatric unit have been developed a
Background	The program serves chiefly the frail elderly , who are demonstrated to be markedly impaired physically , mentally , and socially , requiring the services of multiple professionals to enable the patients to achieve maximum independence .
Background	Alternatives to institutionalization are emphasized , and geriatric education and research programs are part of the model program .

Background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) is characterized by increased peripheral vascular resistance .
Background	Endothelin-1 ( ET-1 ) , a potent endothelium-derived vasoconstrictor , is present at increased concentrations in the plasma and contributes to the regulation of vascular tone in CHF .
Background	An endothelium-derived relaxing factor , nitric oxide ( NO ) , also regulates vascular tone , but endothelium-dependent NO-mediated vasodilation is blunted in CHF .
Background	An endogenous NO synthase inhibitor , asymmetric dimethylarginine ( ADMA ) , which inhibits NO production and endothelium-dependent relaxation , is present at increased levels in the plasma and plays a role in impaired endothelial function in CHF .
Background	However , at present , the relationship between ET-1 and impaired vascular relaxation in CHF is not well known .
Method	We hypothesized that ET-1 inhibits NO-mediated vasodilation via increased ADMA production in CHF , and that an endothelin receptor antagonist can prevent this increase in plasma ADMA levels .
Method	In the present study , we first examined whether circulating ADMA levels were increased in a dog model of CHF induced by 3 weeks of rapid ventricular pacing ( n = 5 ; 270 beats/min ) compared with normal dogs ( n = 5 ) .
Result	After 3 weeks of pacing , cardiac output had decreased significantly ( 1.56 + / -0.16 compared with 2.93 + / -0.25 litres/min ; P < 0.01 ) and systemic vascular resistance had increased ( 4653 + / -374 compared with 3227 + / -396 dyn.s.cm ( -5 ) ; P < 0.01 ) in dogs with CHF
Result	Plasma levels of both ET-1 ( 4.95 + / -0.83 compared with 2.12 + / -0.39 pg/ml ; P < 0.05 ) and ADMA ( 3.27 + / -0.49 compared with 1.91 + / -0.25 nmol/ml ; P < 0.05 ) were significantly increased in CHF dogs .
Result	A significant positive correlation was observed between plasma ET-1 and ADMA levels ( r = 0.72 , P < 0.05 ) .
Method	Secondly , we chronically administered an ET ( A ) receptor antagonist , TA-0201 ( 0.3 mg/kg ; n = 5 ) , to paced CHF dogs .
Method	Drug administration started on day 8 of pacing and continued throughout the experiment .
Result	TA-0201 significantly increased cardiac output ( 2.58 + / -0.24 litres/min ; P < 0.01 ) and suppressed the increases in plasma ADMA levels and systemic vascular resistance ( 2.36 + / -0.30 nmol/ml and 2423 + / -188 dyn.s.cm ( -5 ) respectively ; P < 0.05 for each ) compa
Result	In conclusion , ET-1 contributes to the regulation of vascular tone due , in part , to increased levels of an endogenous NO synthase inhibitor in CHF , and an ET ( A ) receptor antagonist can prevent the inhibition of NO production and the increased peripheral v

Background	Most of the predisposition to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer has been attributed to inherited defects in two tumor suppressor genes BRCA1 and BRCA2 .
Method	To explore the contribution of BRCA1 mutations to hereditary breast cancer among Indian women , we examined the coding sequence of the BRCA1 gene in 14 breast cancer patients with a positive family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer .
Method	Mutation analysis was carried out using conformation sensitive gel electrophoresis ( CSGE ) followed by sequencing .
Result	Three mutations ( 21 % ) in the BRCA1 gene were identified .
Result	Two of them are novel mutations of which one is a missense mutation in exon 7 near the RING finger domain , while the other is a one base pair deletion in exon 11 which results in protein truncation .
Result	The third mutation , 185 delAG , has been previously described in Ashkenazi Jewish families .
Result	To our knowledge this is the first report of a study of germline BRCA1 mutation analysis in familial breast cancer in India .
Result	Our data from 14 different families suggests a lower prevalence but definite involvement of germline mutations in the BRCA1 gene among Indian women with breast cancer and a family history of breast cancer .

Background	Calcitonin has been approved for the treatment of osteoporosis and other diseases involving accelerated bone turnover for approximately 25 years .
Background	The most commonly studied and prescribed form is salmon calcitonin , which has a greater efficacy in clinical use .
Method	A wealth of well-controlled clinical studies have demonstrated that calcitonin preserves or increases bone mineral density ( BMD ) and reduces the risk of vertebral fractures in osteoporosis .
Background	Recent studies have indicated that while a low BMD is correlated with an increase in fracture risk , increases in BMD alone do not explain the antifracture efficacy of antiresorptive therapies such as calcitonin .
Background	Therapies that moderately increase BMD may reduce fracture risk by reducing the rate of bone turnover and maintaining the integrity of the trabecular architecture , resulting in the preservation of bone strength and quality in osteoporotic patients .
Background	An advantage of calcitonin that is not shared by other antiresorptive therapies is its direct analgesic effect on bone pain .
Background	Calcitonin has been demonstrated to be clinically useful in improving pain , not only from the acute vertebral fractures of osteoporosis , but also in Paget 's disease , bone malignancies , and other sources of musculoskeletal pain .
Background	Drugs containing calcitonin may be approved for additional indications in the near future , and as more convenient routes of administration such as the oral route become available , the demand for the calcitonin peptide is expected to increase .

Background	The effect of the ganglioside GM1 on autotomy , a nociceptive behavioral marker for neuropathic pain , and substance P depletion was determined in a rat model of peripheral mononeuropathy , sciatic cryoneurolysis ( SCN ) .
Background	SCN is produced by the application of a cryoprobe to the common sciatic nerve using a freeze-thaw-freeze cycle .
Background	Due to structural sparing of the nerve , regenerative processes are not precluded .
Background	After this peripheral nerve insult , behavioral and neurochemical changes occur that support the use of SCN as a neuropathic pain model .
Background	These changes include : autotomy with coincident transient weight loss and paling of eye color suggestive of increased sympathetic activity , spontaneous nociceptive behaviors , touch-evoked allodynia , prolonged mechanical allodynia , ipsilateral decrease of
Method	Incidence and severity of autotomy were assessed after the intraperitoneal administration of GM1 ( 1 , 10 , and 20 mg/kg ) or saline injected daily for 2 days before SCN , the day of surgery , and for 14 days after surgery .
Method	In a subset of two rats from each treatment group , transcardiac perfusion was performed and spinal cords were processed for substance P immunoreactivity .
Result	GM1 at 10 and 20 mg/kg doses significantly attenuated autotomy as compared with saline-treated rats ( P = 0.007 and 0.0001 , respectively ) .
Result	However , GM1 , at the doses studied , failed to alter the spinal substance P depletion 21 days after SCN .
Result	These results indicate that the ganglioside GM1 may have a role in the clinical management of neuropathic pain after peripheral nerve injury .

Method	This paper aims to present an overview of the literature relating to the effects of endotracheal suctioning ( ETS ) in children and adults with severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Background	TBI is the leading cause of death in children worldwide and continues to result in widespread mortality and morbidity .
Background	In intensive care , ETS is an essential nursing procedure that is undertaken but is known to produce some adverse effects in children .
Method	A comprehensive literature search was undertaken using a Parahoo and quality of reporting of meta-analyses ( QUOROM ) approach .
Method	A range of databases was searched to identify published papers with key search terms .
Method	The databases searched included Cochrane Library , Medline , PubMed Central , CINAHL , Proquest and Science Direct .
Method	This review is based on 21 papers ( with 433 patients in total ) , but specific papers in paediatric head injury children were extremely limited , and the evidence was largely dated and inconclusive .
Result	Although the majority of papers demonstrate an increase in intracranial pressure ( ICP ) with ETS , there are contradictory results with regard to recovery times .
Result	Further research is needed specifically into the effect of ETS on ICP and cerebral perfusion pressure of children with severe TBI , taking into account all the known confounding variables .

Method	At the end of lumbar microdiscectomy , we administered an emulsion of low-dose epidural morphine and vaseline sterile-oil as carrier for morphine delivery .
Method	To evaluate safety and analgesic efficacy of this compound and the impact on long-term epidural scar production .
Background	Epidural analgesia has been used with lumbar microdiscectomy for facilitating management of postoperative pain , shortening patients ' hospital stay and recovery time , and increasing the satisfaction rate.Several products have been used as barrier against t
Method	Two milligrams of morphine mixed with 2 mL of vaseline sterile-oil have been epidurally administered to 40 consecutive patients undergoing lumbar microdiscectomy , evaluating safety and analgesic effectiveness of the compound and the incidence of epidural
Method	Outcome measures included ( 1 ) visual analog scale ( VAS ) to assess the intensity of spontaneous low back and radicular pain , ( 2 ) straight-leg-raising maneuver to assess the degrees of leg elevation in relation to evoked-sciatic pain , ( 3 ) postoperative time to comfortable ambulation , ( 4 ) duration of postoperative hospitalization , ( 5 ) required amount of postoperative analgesics , ( 6 ) postoperative work time loss , and ( 7 ) follow-up lumbar magnetic resonance imaging or segmental computed tomography with contrast medium for quantitative evaluation of postoperative epidural fibrosis .
Result	Neither intraoperative nor postoperative clinically relevant adverse events , such as urinary retention , respiratory disturbances , or wound infections , were observed .
Result	At hospital discharge , patients showed a low pain intensity score ( mean VAS 11.3 mm + / - 0.88 ; mean straight-leg-raising 64.9 degrees + / - 14.6 ) , with low consumption of analgesics ( 31.2 % in hospital , 35 % at home ) .
Result	Mean hospital stay was 1.21 + / - 0.17 days ; mean postoperative work time loss was 22.23 + / - 1.97 days .
Result	At 1-week and 2-week control , mean pain intensity score was 10.7 + / - 2.3 and 9.3 mm + / - 1.3 , respectively.After a mean follow-up of 34.3 months ( range , 24-48 ) 12 patients episodes of transient lumbar and/or sciatic pain .
Result	At the last neuroradiological control , according to the 5-grade scale of Ross et al ( Neurol Res 1999 ) , epidural fibrosis scored 0 in 8 cases and 1 in 32 cases .
Result	Epidural application of morphine-vaseline sterile-oil compound after lumbar microdiscectomy proved to be safe and effective , improving postoperative pain control and return to function .
Result	At clinical and neuroradiological follow-up epidural fibrosis was acceptable .
Result	To confirm the efficacy of the compound , large prospective studies are warranted .

Method	To discuss the appropriate standard of care in randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies in critically ill patients .
Background	The debate over the appropriate standard of care in randomized controlled trials was sparked by the Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome Network trial of low tidal volume ventilation .
Result	In this trial , patients were randomized to either low or traditional tidal volume ventilation , and the investigators reported that low tidal volume ventilation significantly improved survival in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome .
Result	However , it was argued that the control group used in this trial was not reflective of current practice patterns and that the improvement in survival may have been derived from patients in the control group being placed at increased risk .
Result	This debate forced intensivists to consider what defines an appropriate standard-of-care control group in randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies .
Result	If titrated therapies are to be studied safely , the mechanism behind the titration must be understood and incorporated into the control group .
Result	Failure to include a comparator group receiving current practice creates a study design that may jeopardize patient safety because there is no control group representing probable patient outcome outside of the trial .
Result	Additionally , randomizing patients to the extremes of a range of care without incorporation of a current practice control group prevents the investigators from making valid recommendations for changing current practice .
Result	The incorporation of current practice patterns into randomized controlled trials of titrated therapies is essential for producing generalizable results and safeguarding patients .

Background	Inadequate pain control is a dismaying reality in cancer patients .
Method	To review studies on cancer pain control interventions , and describe their findings with respect to participants ' attitudes and knowledge , pain management , and pain levels .
Method	Computer searches were made in MEDLINE from January 1962 , in PsychLIT from January 1974 , and in CINAHL from January 1982 to August 1999 , using a search strategy based on a combination of key words .
Method	Computerized listings from these sources contained 383 , 26 , and 85 articles , respectively .
Method	After exclusion of duplicates , abstracts , editorials , letters , and irrelevant articles , we retained for review 33 articles , of which 25 ( 76 % ) were interventions targeting health professionals , and 8 ( 24 % ) interventions targeting patients and family caregivers .
Method	Study reports were reviewed using the following structured framework
Method	Intervention Setting , Study Methods , Process Assessment , and Pain Outcome Assessment ( Attitudes and Knowledge , Pain Management , and Pain Relief/Quality of Life ) .
Result	Educational interventions can successfully improve cancer pain knowledge and attitudes of health care professionals , but without having much impact on patients ' pain levels .
Result	The most promising avenue for improving cancer pain control in ambulatory settings may be brief , nursing interventions targeting patients in combination with a daily pain diary .
Result	This review suggests that further progress may occur through incorporating a systematic and valid method of documenting daily fluctuation in pain levels , and ensuring that documented uncontrolled pain is followed rapidly by clinical reassessment and dose

Background	Resection of the small bowel can lead to malabsorption of fluid , electrolytes , minerals , and other essential nutrients , resulting in malnutrition and dehydration .
Background	Individualized and tailored nutritional management for patients with short bowel syndrome ( SBS ) helps to optimize intestinal absorption , leading to nutritional independence such that a patient can resume as normal a lifestyle as possible .
Background	Parenteral nutrition ( PN ) , used to supply the required nutrients following resection , is associated with a number of complications affecting patient morbidity and mortality .
Method	Attempts should be made to wean patients from PN to an oral diet as soon as possible .
Result	Dietary management is complex and needs to be individualized for each patient on the basis of his or her specific gastrointestinal anatomy , underlying disease , and lifestyle .
Result	In addition to nutrient intake , management of SBS also requires appropriate oral rehydration , vitamin and mineral supplementation , and pharmacotherapy .
Result	Several medications provide a useful adjunctive function to dietary intervention , including antidiarrheal agents , H2 antagonists and proton pump inhibitors , pancreatic enzymes , somatostatin analogs , antimicrobials , and trophic factors .

Background	To assess impairments , disabilities and handicap pattern in konzo .
Method	The study included 17 konzo subjects , of which three were males and 14 females ( mean age 21 , median 18 years ) .
Method	A detailed neurological examination was performed on all subjects .
Method	Subsequently , an assessment of impairments , disabilities and handicap was done with a constructed rating scale partially based on the ICIDH-2 framework .
Result	The overall disablement picture in all subjects consisted of motor dysfunction in lower limbs leading to limitations in walking and movement activities , and restrictions in mobility .
Result	Hip mobility was severely impaired in most cases ( 15/17 ) .
Result	Although konzo subjects showed normal muscle power in upper limbs ( 13/17 ) , they had impaired fine motor function ( 10/17 ) .
Result	Further studies are needed to assess the effectiveness of the WHO criteria for konzo in defining its forms .
Result	The applicability of the ICIDH-2 framework in this study demonstrates the possibility of its use as a common language among researchers in the field of motor disorders .
Result	However , a revision is suggested of its taxonomy , and a definition of operational criteria to clarify the content of different qualifiers provided to assess the level of functioning or disability .

Method	By use of pentobarbital sodium to produce experimental congestive heart failure ( CHF ) in 40 rabbits , they were treated with xin-fu-ning IV ( XFN IV ) , the plasma atrial natriuretic factor ( ANF ) levels and atrial tissue ANF levels of rabbits were measured .
Result	The results showed that XFN IV had elevated ANF levels of the rabbits with CHF .
Result	It showed that XFN IV could improve endocrine function of heart , and it also showed good curative effect on CHF .

Background	The clinical outcome of acid-related disorders treated by proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) might be dependent on the polymorphically expressed cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 2C19 , which is involved in PPI metabolism .
Method	We tested whether esomeprazole-induced healing of gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ) is related to CYP2C19 genotype .
Method	Two hundred five patients with GERD ( Los Angeles classification grade A or B ) were included in a case-control study according to endoscopic outcome ( healed versus unhealed group , matched for confounders ) after treatment with 40 mg esomeprazole daily for 4
Method	The frequency of CYP2C19 genotypes was determined as the primary outcome measure for both groups .
Method	In a second trial plasma levels of esomeprazole and corresponding CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 metabolites ( 5-hydroxyomeprazole and omeprazole sulfone ) were monitored in 10 CYP2C19 wild-type patients with GERD after the first and last doses ( day 7 ) of 40 mg esomeprazole daily to calculate metabolic ratios .
Result	CYP2C19 wild-type ( n = 148 ) and heterozygous ( n = 51 ) or homozygous variant ( n = 6 ) patients did not differ with respect to baseline characteristics .
Result	The frequency distribution of CYP2C19 genotypes was not different between patients with complete ( 75/100 ) and incomplete ( 73/105 ) healing ( P = .65 ) .
Result	When a single esomeprazole dose and multiple dosing were compared , the low contribution of CYP2C19 to the elimination of esomeprazole decreased further by 50 % .
Result	In contrast , the CYP3A4-dependent formation of omeprazole sulfone increased by 40 % , and consequently , the metabolic ratio of omeprazole sulfone to 5-hydroxyomeprazole was elevated from 7.9 to 19.3 ( P = .0004 ) .
Result	In contrast to other PPIs , esomeprazole-induced healing of GERD is unrelated to the CYP2C19 genotype , which can be explained by the metabolic shift toward the CYP3A4-mediated pathway .

Background	BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations confer a high lifetime risk to breast and ovarian cancers .
Method	We have screened cancer patients from 13 families with at least three breast and/or ovarian cancers from Lithuania for 5382insC , C61G and 4153delA BRCA1 gene mutations .
Result	One of three mutations was found in 9 of the 13 studied families ( 69 % ) .
Result	4153delA was the most frequently detected and accounted for 56 % of all identified mutation .
Result	5382insC and C61G accounted for 33 % and 11 % of found mutations , respectively .
Result	Significantly higher , than in other populations , incidence of 4153delA indicates that this may be founder BRCA1 mutation characteristic for Lithuanians .
Result	Our analysis shows that testing of 4153delA , 5382insC , C61G BRCA1 mutations should be extremely effective and inexpensive tool in testing Lithuanian population aimed to identify individuals with high risk of breast and ovarian cancers .

Background	This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of dorsal rhizotomy on upper-limb spasticity , functional improvement , coordination , and hand sensibility .
Method	Fifteen spastic upper limbs in 13 patients were selected and prospectively studied .
Method	Brachial plexus dorsal rhizotomy was performed in which two , three , or four dorsal roots were completely sectioned .
Method	Patients were followed up for at least 12 months after surgery ; the mean follow-up period was 15.6 months and the maximum period was 30 months .
Result	A remarkable relief of spasticity was observed in all cases .
Result	Recurrence was observed in only one patient and was caused by insufficient dorsal root section .
Result	Functional improvement was observed in all cases , and functional improvement in the hand was found to be related to the presence of active finger extension in the preoperative period .
Result	Even when extended dorsal root section was performed , no hand anesthesia , either total or partial , was observed .
Result	No patient lost movement ability in the postoperative period , and no ataxic limbs were observed .
Result	Brachial plexus dorsal rhizotomy is very effective as a treatment for upper-limb spasticity and results in functional improvement without loss of sensation in the hand .

Background	In the two decades after obstructive sleep apnea syndrome ( OSAS ) was described , it was considered a disease primarily of males .
Background	As a result , for many years , epidemiologic studies of the general population examining the prevalence of OSAS included only males and investigators examined almost exclusively males in their pathophysiologic studies .
Background	It has been widely recognized that OSAS in women is not as rare as it was originally believed .
Background	Whereas early studies of clinic populations suggested that females made up about 10 % or less of OSAS cases , later studies of the general population suggest that about a third of all cases are females .
Background	This suggests that there may be clinical under-recognition of OSAS in females .

Background	Obesity can result in alterations in cardiac structure and function even in the absence of systemic hypertension and underlying organic heart disease .
Background	Increased total blood volume creates a high cardiac output state that may cause ventricular dilatation and ultimately eccentric hypertrophy of the left ( and possibly the right ) ventricle .
Background	Eccentric left ventricular ( LV ) hypertrophy produces diastolic dysfunction .
Background	Systolic dysfunction may ensue due to excessive wall stress if wall thickening fails to keep pace with dilatation .
Background	This disorder is referred to as obesity cardiomyopathy .
Background	The presence of systemic hypertension in obese individuals facilitates development of LV dilatation and hypertrophy .
Background	Congestive heart failure may occur in such individuals , and may be attributable to LV diastolic dysfunction or to combined LV diastolic and systolic dysfunction .
Background	The sleep apnea/obesity hypoventilation syndrome occurs in 5 % of morbidly obese individuals and is potentially life-threatening .
Background	Treatment of obesity cardiomyopathy consists of weight loss , salt restriction , and diuretics .
Background	Digitalis and vasodilators may be useful in selected cases .
Background	Central obesity is probably a risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease .
Background	Alterations in lipid and insulin metabolism may facilitate development of coronary heart disease in obese patients .

Method	In a large population-based multiple sclerosis ( MS ) sample ( n = 7,951 ) , 116 twins were identified ( 1.4 % ) , of which it was possible to contact 97 .
Method	In 27 pairs , the twin of the patient with MS was dead .
Method	Among the 70 remaining pairs , 16 were excluded because either the index patient or their twin did not accept protocol requirements .
Method	The final sample included 54 pairs .
Method	Twin zygosity was determined by DNA fingerprint analysis .
Method	We found 17 monozygotic pairs and 37 dizygotic pairs .
Result	One of the 17 monozygotic pairs ( 5.9 % ) and 1 of the 37 dizygotic pairs ( 2.7 % ) were concordant for MS.
Result	In 42 of the clinically unaffected twins , magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) of the brain was performed , and 9 scans were classified as indicative of MS.
Result	Three of these 42 patients had abnormal visual-evoked potentials , but all 3 had normal MRI scans .
Result	The overall proportion of pairs in which the co-twin had some form of clinical , radiological , or electrophysiological abnormality was approximately 30 % ; this proportion was independent of zygosity .

Background	This is a self-directed learning module that reviews medical complications associated with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
Background	It is part of a chapter on SCI medicine in the Self-Directed Physiatric Educational Program for practitioners and trainees in physical medicine and rehabilitation .
Background	This article includes discussion of common medical complications that impact rehabilitation and long-term follow-up for individuals with SCI .
Background	Issues addressed include the rehabilitation approach to SCI individuals with pressure ulcers , unilateral lower-extremity swelling ( deep venous thrombosis , heterotopic ossification , fractures ) , along with the pathophysiology , assessment , and treatment of s
Background	To describe diagnostic and treatment approaches for medical complications common to individuals with SCI .

Background	The aim of this study was to systematically review economic analyses comparing drug-eluting stents ( DES ) to bare metal stents ( BMS ) in patients who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention to form an overall view about cost-effectiveness of DES and to c
Method	Electronic databases searched from January 2004 to January 2006 were Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ; DARE , HTA , EED ( NHS CRD ) ; MEDLINE ( R ) In-Process , Other Non-Indexed Citations , MEDLINE ( R ) .
Method	References of the papers identified were checked .
Method	We included randomized controlled trials ( RCT ) or model-based cost-effectiveness analyses comparing DES to BMS in patients with coronary artery disease .
Method	The methodological quality of the papers was assessed by Drummond 's criteria .
Method	Baseline characteristics and results of the studies were extracted and data synthesized descriptively .
Method	A decision tree model was constructed to evaluate the cost-utility of DES in comparison to BMS , where health-related quality of life was measured by the 15D .
Result	We identified thirteen good-quality economic evaluations .
Result	In two of these based on RCTs , DES was found cost-effective .
Result	In six studies , it was concluded that DES might probably be a cost-effective strategy in some circumstances , but not as a single strategy , and four studies concluded that DES is not cost-effective .
Result	One study did not draw a clear conclusion .
Result	In our analysis , the overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was Euros 98,827 per quality-adjusted life-years gained .
Result	Avoiding one revascularization with DES would cost Euros 4,794 , when revascularization with BMS costs Euros 3,260 .
Result	The evidence is inconsistent of whether DES would be a cost-effective treatment compared with BMS in any healthcare system where evaluated .
Result	A marked restenosis risk reduction should be achieved before use of DES is justifiable at present prices .
Result	When considering adoption of a new health technology with a high incremental cost within a fixed budget , opportunity cost in terms of untreated patients should be seriously considered as a question of collective ethics .

Method	A total of 27 men with multiple sclerosis underwent urodynamic evaluation as part of a prospective study of voiding dysfunction .
Method	Of 18 patients with detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia 9 suffered serious urologic complications , including repeated episodes of urosepsis , vesicoureteral reflux and urolithiasis .
Result	None of the 9 patients without dyssynergia suffered any urologic complications .
Result	Urologic complications were correlated highly to the presence of detrusor-external sphincter dyssynergia and the severity of multiple sclerosis but not to duration of multiple sclerosis , age of the patient or type of dyssynergia .
Result	Although no treatment was without complications it appears that either anticholinergics plus intermittent self-catheterization or condom catheter drainage is superior to an indwelling catheter for initial conservative treatment .
Result	External sphincterotomy or urinary diversion may be necessary if conservative therapy fails .

Background	To advance our understanding of attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and medication effects we draw upon the evidence for ( 1 ) a neurotransmitter imbalance between norepinephrine and dopamine in attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and ( 2 ) an asymm
Result	It appears that attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder may involve a bihemispheric dysfunction characterized by reduced dopaminergic and excessive noradrenergic functioning .
Result	In turn , favorable medication effects may be mediated by a restoration in neurotransmitter balance and by increased control over the allocation of attentional resources between hemispheres .

Background	To find out an effective therapy for obesity induced by antipsychotic agents .
Method	One hundred and one cases of obesity who were being treated with antipsychotic agents were randomly divided into an observation group and a control group .
Method	The observation group were treated with electroacupuncture at Quchi ( LI 11 ) , Zusanli ( ST 36 ) , Fenglong ( ST 40 ) , Shangjuxu ( ST 37 ) and Xiajuxu ( ST 39 ) , once a day for 8 weeks ; and no treatment was given to the control group .
Method	The Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale ( BPRS ) was used for assessment of therapeutic effect and the Treatment Emergent Symptom Scale ( TESS ) for adverse effects .
Result	The clinically effective rate of the observation group ( 54.9 % ) was superior to the control group ( 10.0 % ) with a significant difference between the two groups ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	The BPRS score-reducing rate was 24.92 % and 28.62 % in the both groups respectively , and with no adverse effects .
Result	Electroacupuncture has a good therapeutic effect on obesity induced by antipsychotic agents , and it improves the patient 's compliance with no adverse effect .

Background	An earlier publication showed that acupuncture and stabilising exercises as an adjunct to standard treatment was effective for pelvic girdle pain during pregnancy , but the post-pregnancy effects of these treatment modalities are unknown .
Background	The aim of this follow-up study was to describe regression of pelvic girdle pain after delivery in these women .
Method	A randomised , single blind , controlled trial .
Method	East Hospital and 27 maternity care centres in Göteborg , Sweden .
Method	Some 386 pregnant women with pelvic girdle pain .
Method	Participants were randomly assigned to standard treatment plus acupuncture ( n = 125 ) , standard treatment plus specific stabilising exercises ( n = 131 ) or to standard treatment alone ( n = 130 ) .
Method	Primary outcome measures pain intensity ( Visual Analogue Scale ) .
Method	Secondary outcome measure assessment of the severity of pelvic girdle pain by an independent examiner 12 weeks after delivery .
Result	Approximately three-quarters of all the women were free of pain 3 weeks after delivery .
Result	There were no differences in recovery between the 3 treatment groups .
Result	According to the detailed physical examination , pelvic girdle pain had resolved in 99 % of the women 12 weeks after delivery .
Result	This study shows that irrespective of treatment modality , regression of pelvic girdle pain occurs in the great majority of women within 12 weeks after delivery .

Background	Transformation of the OA-group toxins into fatty acid ester derivatives ( often designated `` DTX3 '' ) is common in many bi
Background	and after 3 and 6 weeks of
Result	Analysis of samples by HPLC-MS/MS and HPLC-MS ( 2 ) revealed some differences in identity and abundance of fatty acid moieties of the OA-group esters between species , but the 16:0 fatty acid esters dominated in both oysters and mussels , which is in accordanc
Method	A wider range of PTX2 SA-esters were detected compared to esters of the OA-group toxins in both mussels and oysters , and in oysters , both 140 , 184 and 205 fatty acid side chains were more common than 160 .
Result	OA-group toxins were esterified to a larger degree in oysters ( 83-93 % ) compared to mussels ( 21-41 % ) , and in mussels a higher proportion of OA was esterified compared to DTX1 and DTX2 .
Result	Contrary to what was observed for OA-group toxins , PTX2 SA was esterified to a larger degree in mussels ( 81 % ) compared to oysters ( 64 % ) .
Result	Calculations of depuration rates for all individual esters of each parent compound showed that the esters of DTX1 depurated significantly slower from both mussels and oysters compared to esters of OA , DTX2 and PTX2 SA , but overall the depuration rates of
Result	This indicated that differences in depuration rates are not causing the large species-specific differences in levels and profiles of these toxins .
Result	Instead , the results for the OA-group toxins suggested that a higher rate of esterification in oysters is the main factor causing the observed differences in the proportion of esters to free toxin .
Result	For PTX2 SA , large differences in ester profiles and a higher proportion of esters of PTX2 SA in mussels compared to oysters suggested differential assimilation and metabolic rate processes for the PTXs compared to OA-group toxins between these species .
Result	Hence , although produced by the same Dinophysis species , conclusions about the dynamics of one toxin group based on results from the other group should be avoided in future studies .

Method	This paper reports a systematic review of seven studies evaluating the efficacy of cognitive behavioural therapy ( CBT ) for persistent primary insomnia .
Background	Insomnia is one of the most common health complaints reported in the primary care setting .
Background	Although non-pharmacological treatments such as the CBT have been suggested to be useful in combating the persistent insomnia , the efficacy and clinical utility of CBT for primary insomnia have yet to be determined .
Method	A systematic search of Ovid , MEDLINE , psychINFO , PsycARTICLES , CINAHL , and EMBASE databases of papers published between 1993 and 2004 was conducted , using the following medical subject headings or key words insomnia , primary insomnia , psychophysiological insomnia , sleep maintenance disorders , sleep initiation disorders , non-pharmacological treatment , and cognitive behavioural therapy .
Method	A total of seven papers was included in the review .
Result	Stimulus control , sleep restriction , sleep hygiene education and cognitive restructuring were the main treatment components .
Result	Interventions were provided by psychiatrists except for one study , in which the CBT was delivered by nurses .
Result	Among beneficial outcomes , improvement of sleep efficacy , sleep onset latency and wake after sleep onset were the most frequently reported .
Result	In addition , participants significantly reduced sleep medication use .
Result	Some studies gave follow-up data which indicated that the CBT produced durable clinical changes in total sleep time and night-time wakefulness .
Result	These randomized controlled trial studies demonstrated that CBT was superior to any single-component treatment such as stimulus control , relaxation training , educational programmes , or other control conditions .
Result	However , heterogeneity in patient assessment , CBT protocols , and outcome indicators made determination of the relative efficacy and clinical utility of the therapy difficult .
Result	Therefore , the standard components of CBT need to be clearly defined .
Result	In addition , a comprehensive assessment of patients is essential for future studies .

Background	Intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) , treatment of severe male infertility allows an accurate evaluation of oocyte maturity at recovery after corona-cell removal .
Result	In cycles comprising a GnRH analog desensitization and a stimulation by hMG or FSH , 12 % of oocytes aspirated from follicles ( > 14 mm ) , 34 hours post-hCG are still immature , in prophase or metaphase 1 .
Result	They are able to achieve meiosis in vitro in 66 % of the cases and will be fertilized ( 2 PN ) by ICSI in 51 % of the cases as the in vivo mature oocytes of the same cohort .
Result	Nevertheless , the quality of cytoplasmic maturation and consequently of embryonic viability remains to be assessed as there still are few pregnancies arising from in vitro matured oocytes .
Result	ICSI also represents the only way to obtain normal fertilization in some exceptional but observed anomalies of oocyte maturation , particularly when there is a lack of zona reaction leading to repetitive polyspermy in conventional IVF .

Background	Prior to undergoing conservative pelvic surgery for improvement of fertility , there must be meticulous preoperative evaluation .
Background	This evaluation involves a history , all previous records and operative reports , psychologic evaluation , physical examination , hysterosalpingogram , laparoscopy , and tests for male factor and ovulation .
Result	In history taking , the physician is most interested in past evidence of infection .
Result	The emotional status of the patient must be considered , especially for those individuals who are seeking sterilization reversal .
Result	Often , with a history of previous pelvic surgery the rate of success is lowered .
Result	Physical examination is usually not useful in predicting final outcome of microsurgery ; however , it does determine the patient 's general preoperative status .
Result	Hysterosalpingography and laparoscopy are complementary procedures which are the cornerstone of the preoperative evaluation .
Result	The 1st gives evidence of the status of the uterus and the tube proximal to the block , if 1 exists .
Result	If the block is in the isthmic portion , the hysterosalpingogram will indicate how much of the tube is patent next to the corpus .
Result	Preoperative laparoscopy is necessary for proper and complete evaluation of pelvic status ; it allows the operator to visualize the distal segment of the tube .
Result	Laparoscopy indicates the extent of pelvic adhesion , ovary and tube involvement , mobility of the tube , extent of fimbrial involvement , and presence of disease .
Result	When all factors are taken are into consideration , the surgeon must determine whether the benefits of surgery will outweigh the risks .
Result	Patient age , emotional needs , other parameters of fertility , status of tubes and ovaries , etc. must all be taken into consideration.evaluationfamily planninghysterosalpingographyinfertilitylaparoscopyreproductionreversible sterilizationsterilization rever

Background	The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of alendronate on metacarpal and lumbar bone mineral density ( BMD ) , bone resorption , and chronic back pain in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis .
Method	Eighty postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , 59-88 years of age , were divided into two groups of 40 each according to the site of BMD measurement : the metacarpus ( M ) and the lumbar spine ( L ) .
Method	All of them were treated with alendronate ( 5 mg/day ) for 12 months .
Method	Metacarpal or lumbar BMD was measured by computed X-ray densitometry or dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry in the M or the L group , respectively , at baseline and every 6 months .
Method	Urinary cross-linked N-terminal telopeptides of type I collagen ( NTX ) were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay , and chronic back pain was evaluated by face scale score at baseline and every 6 months in both groups .
Result	There were no significant differences in baseline characteristics , including age , body mass index , years since menopause , urinary NTX level , face scale score , or number of prevalent vertebral fractures per patient between the two groups .
Result	Urinary NTX level was reduced and chronic back pain was improved similarly in both groups .
Result	Whereas metacarpal BMD did not significantly change in the M group ( 0.20 % increase ) , lumbar BMD increased by 8.15 % in the L group .
Result	These results suggest that although alendronate increases BMD of the lumbar spine , which is rich in cancellous bone , and improves chronic back pain , with suppression of bone resorption in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , it may fail to increase cor

Background	Pronounced , unexplained preoperative tachycardia can be a formidable challenge for the anesthesiologist .
Background	Whereas the relationship between persistent intraoperative tachycardia and perioperative morbidity is indisputable , there is a lack of available data on unexplained preoperative tachycardia .
Background	The main objective of this case series is to stimulate research and discussion on this topic , so that guidelines can be developed to aid in management .
Method	We present three patients with pronounced ( > or = 130 beats x min ( -1 ) ) unexplained preoperative tachycardia who suffered adverse perioperative events that were garnered from quality improvement records at two teaching hospitals .
Method	In the first case , a 38-yr-old woman with a lumbar spinal tumour went into ventricular fibrillation after induction of anesthesia and was found on subsequent evaluation to have an abnormal cardiac re-entrant pathway .
Method	In the second case , an otherwise healthy middle-aged man developed a wide complex tachycardia with hypotension during foot surgery , with the subsequent cardiac evaluation being negative .
Method	In the third case , a young , healthy woman scheduled for a melanoma incision developed crushing , substernal chest pain accompanied by nausea and shortness of valve prolapse with regurgitation .
Method	Before rescheduling the procedures , therapeutic interventions were undertaken that facilitated successful completion of the surgeries .
Result	There are currently no data regarding the prevalence of unexplained preoperative tachycardia , and no guidelines to direct management .
Result	More research is needed on this important topic , including epidemiological data and management algorithm ( s ) .

Method	After shorts general considerations about physiologic and epidemiologic features relative to sleep , snoring and apneas in elderly , authors bring analysis of 30 snorers over sixty years .
Background	They all had a sleep recording , a ENT examination , and a pharyngeal C.T. scan .
Result	The main results are following : the high frequency of Sleep Apnea Syndrome ( SAS ) over 60 is to be carefully considered .
Result	So , Sleep recording appears necessary in the main part of this population .
Result	Cardiovascular , pneumologic and neurologic disease are very often associated , and do constitute elements of therapeutic choice .
Result	Velopharyngeal narrowing , without other level of superior airway closure , is the usual case .
Result	Therapeutic management is often difficult ; there is a choice , in apneic patients , between Uvulo-Palato-Pharyngoplasty ( UPP ) , sometimes impossible because of associated pathology , and nocturnal Continuous Positive Airway Pressure ( CPAP ) , which employment i

Method	Fifty Suffolk-crossbred wether lambs , with an initial live weight of 29 + / - 2.1 kg , were allocated to one of five concentrate-based diets formulated to have a similar fatty acid content ( 60 g/kg DM ) , but containing either linseed oil ( high in 18:3 n-3 ) ; fi
Method	Lambs were slaughtered when they reached 40 kg .
Method	Growth performance and intake were similar ( P > 0.35 ) among treatments .
Result	By contrast , gain : feed was higher ( P < 0.05 ) in lambs fed the fish oil compared with the linseed oil or PLS/algae diets .
Result	Total fatty acid concentration ( mg/100 g ) in the neutral lipid of the longissimus muscle was not affected by treatment ( P > 0.87 ) but was least ( P < 0.05 ) in the phospholipid fraction in lambs fed the linseed oil diet .
Result	Lambs fed either diet containing marine algae contained the highest ( P < 0.05 ) percentage of 22:6 n-3 in the phospholipid ( mean of 5.2 % ) , 2.8-fold higher than in sheep fed the fish oil diet .
Result	In lambs fed the fish/algae diet , the percentage of 20:5 n-3 was highest ( P < 0.05 ) , contributing some 8.7 , 0.8 , and 0.5 % of the total fatty acids in the muscle phospholipid , neutral lipids , and adipose tissue , respectively .
Result	The percentage of 18:3 n-3 in the phospholipid fraction of the LM was highest ( P < 0.05 ) in lambs fed the linseed oil diet ( 6.9 % ) , a value double that of sheep fed the PLS diet .
Result	By contrast , lambs fed the PLS diet had twice the percentage of 18:3 n-3 in the muscle neutral lipids ( 3.8 % ) than those offered the linseed oil diet , and 5.5-fold greater than lambs fed the fish/algae treatment ( P < 0.05 ) , an effect that was similar in
Result	The percentage of 18:2 n-6 was highest ( P < 0.05 ) in lambs fed the PLS diet , where it contributed 33.7 , 10.1 , and 11.2 % in the muscle phospholipid , neutral lipids , and adipose tissue , respectively .
Result	The highest ( P < 0.05 ) muscle PUFA-to-saturated fatty acid ( P : S ) ratio was obtained in lambs fed the PLS diet ( 0.57 ) , followed by the PLS/algae diet ( 0.46 ) , and those fed the fish oil or linseed oil diets had the lowest ratios ( 0.19 and 0.26 , respectiv
Result	The favorable P : S ratio of lambs fed the PLS/algae diet , in conjunction with the increased levels of 20:5 n-3 and 22:6 n-3 , enhanced the nutritional qualities of lamb to more closely resemble what is recommended for the human diet .

Background	Our aim was to find out which factors favor the occurrence of pain in adult patients with Scheuermann 's disease -- a juvenile manifestation of osteochondrosis of the spine , to study the clinical and radiological signs , the role of rehabilitation and the mea
Method	Descriptive and retrospective study about 45 adults treated by rehabilitation .
Method	A data sheet listed the patient 's occupation , current practice of sport , antecedents ( violent sport , traumatism , pain ) , presence of a family form , motive of consultation , clinical and paraclinical examinations and immediate and long-term results of rehabilitation .
Result	Average age 35 years ( 18 to 65 ) , male predominance ( 1.8:1 ) , occupational risk factors : 16 % ; only 24 % practiced sports currently .
Result	Antecedents : sports 49 % , spinal column traumatism 13 % , dorsal and lumbar pain during adolescence 16 % .
Result	Consultation motive : abnormal posture 4 % and pain 96 % .
Result	According to the examination : abnormal spinal column in 80 % of cases .
Result	According to radiography , our patients were divided into 49 % who were carriers of growth vertebral dystrophy and 51 % who were carriers of the real Scheuermann 's disease .
Result	The immediate results of rehabilitation were satisfactory , 75 % of the results were very good and good .
Result	Between six months and four years , 70 % of the results were very satisfactory .
Result	Exercises were observed in only 11 % of the cases , and stopped after two months on average .
Result	Scheuermann 's disease in adults is a different entity from that of the teenager for the major manifestation is pain and not aesthetic quality .
Result	The patient 's occupation is rather sedentary ; sport is beneficial .
Result	The functional rehabilitation is the basic treatment and recourse to surgery or dorso-lumbar braces is rare .

Background	To examine the hypothesis that , apart from prematurity , intrauterine growth status ( expressed as gestational age specific birth weight standard deviation scores ) , neonatal factors , and duration of dexamethasone treatment influence bone mineralisation in e
Method	In this prospective study , groups consisted of 15 preterm small for gestational age infants ( SGA group ) and 43 preterm appropriate for gestational age infants ( AGA group ) .
Method	A reference group contained 17 term infants .
Method	Body size is known to affect bone mineral content ( BMC ) , therefore postnatal bone mineralisation was measured when the study infants and controls had attained a similar body size .
Method	Bone mineral density ( BMD ) and BMC were determined by dual energy x ray absorptiometer of the lumbar spine ( L2-L4 ) .
Result	Both preterm groups had significantly lower BMC and BMD than the weight matched term reference group , but no difference was found in BMC and BMD between preterm SGA and AGA infants .
Result	In stepwise regression analysis , bone area , duration of dexamethasone treatment , weight at examination , and weight gain per week were the most significant factors , explaining 54 % of the variance of the BMC values .
Result	In particular , weight at examination , prematurity , and possibly dexamethasone treatment , but not intrauterine growth status , affect postnatal bone mineralisation .

Method	Chicks , 8 days of age , were housed in a wind tunnel at temperatures from 12 to 28 C in increments of 4 C.
Method	The tunnel was equipped with a microswitch , an infrared bulb located above the switch , and a small electric fan controlled by a rheostat .
Method	Following learning , chicks were exposed at each temperature to air speeds of 0 , .5 , 1.0 , and 1.5 m/s according to a Latin-square design .
Result	Chicks readily responded to air speed and temperature changes .
Result	For each increase of .1 m/s the effective environmental temperature dropped .6 C.

Method	STUDY DESIGN : Case description .
Method	To describe a case of traumatic subluxation in association with a congenitally absent cervical pedicle , and review the pertinent medical literature .
Background	The congenital absence of a cervical pedicle is a relatively uncommon developmental anomaly that is frequently mistaken for a unilateral facet fracture-dislocation in the context of acute trauma .
Background	Because there is little evidence of recovery after surgery , and the symptoms are usually not disabling , surgery is not recommended for most cases .
Method	A 62-year-old man presented with severe neck and right shoulder pain after falling .
Method	Plain radiographs and computed tomography of the cervical spine showed the typical features of a congenitally absent pedicle at C6 with anterolisthesis of C6 on C7 .
Method	We performed anterior interbody fusion at C6-C7 because of persistent neck pain and progressive instability .
Result	Complete restoration of the C6-C7 subluxation was achieved with resolution of the presenting symptoms .
Result	At 18 months follow-up , flexion and extension dynamic radiographs demonstrated good alignment with solid fusion at C6-C7 .
Result	Although conservative treatment is the primary treatment for this clinical entity , surgery is an alternative option for those patients who fail to achieve recovery after conservative treatment or exhibit instability .

Background	Obsessive compulsive disorder is a common and disabling disorder .
Background	A significant proportion of patients manifest a chronic course .
Background	Individual randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) have shown that selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) are effective in this condition .
Background	Previous systematic reviews or meta-analyses summarising the evidence are methodologically problematic or limited in the scope of their analysis .
Method	To examine the efficacy and adverse effects of serotonin re-uptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) versus placebo for obsessive compulsive disorder ( OCD ) in adults .
Method	CCDANCTR-Studies and CCDANCTR-References were searched on 12/11/2007 .
Method	Reference lists were checked .
Method	Experts in the field were contacted .
Method	All RCTs and quasi-RCTs examining the efficacy of SSRIs compared with placebo for OCD in adults were eligible for inclusion .
Method	Selection of studies and data extraction were carried out by two review authors independently , and quality assessment of studies was undertaken .
Method	Data analysis was conducted using Review Manager software .
Method	Summary measures were produced using the weighted mean difference ( WMD ) for continuous data and relative risk ( RR ) for dichotomous data , with 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) .
Method	SSRIs were examined as an overall group of drugs , and as individual drugs .
Result	Seventeen studies were included in the review , involving 3097 participants .
Result	Based on all 17 studies , SSRIs as a group were more effective than placebo in reducing the symptoms of OCD between 6 and 13 weeks post-treatment , measured using the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale ( YBOCS ) ( WMD -3.21 , 95 % CI -3.84 to -2.57 ) .
Result	The WMD for individual SSRI drugs were similar and not statistically different .
Result	Based on 13 studies ( 2697 participants ) , SSRIs were more effective than placebo in achieving clinical response at post-treatment ( RR 1.84 , 95 % CI 1.56 to 2.17 ) .
Result	The pooled RR was shown to be similar between individual SSRI drugs .
Result	Although reported adverse effects data were more limited , with few exceptions , the overall and individual adverse effects for the different SSRIs were always worse than for placebo and , in the majority of cases , the difference was statistically significan
Result	Nausea , headache and insomnia were always reported amongst the most common adverse effects in trials of each of the drugs .
Result	SSRIs are more effective than placebo for OCD , at least in the short-term , although there are differences between the adverse effects of individual SSRI drugs .
Result	The longer term efficacy and tolerability of different SSRI drugs for OCD has yet to be established .

Background	Prenatal long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( LCPUFAs ) and trans-fatty acids may affect neurodevelopment .
Background	In healthy term children , we determined relationships between relative fatty acid contents of umbilical arteries and veins and neurodevelopment at 18 mo. .
Method	The study comprised a mixed group of 317 breast-fed , formula-fed , and LCPUFA formula-fed children .
Method	Study endpoints were the Hempel neurologic examination resulting in a neurologic classification and neurologic optimality score ( NOS ) , and the Bayley Psychomotor Developmental Index ( PDI ) and Mental Developmental Index ( MDI ) .
Result	Fifteen children showed minor neurologic dysfunction ( MND ) .
Result	The umbilical vein trans , trans-18 :2 n-6 content was higher in children with MND than in the normal group .
Result	The NOS was significantly reduced in infants with an umbilical vein docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) content within the lowest quartile .
Result	Umbilical vein arachidonic acid ( AA ) was related to NOS in univariate statistics but not in multivariate analyses .
Result	The sum of trans-fatty acids and that of C18 trans-fatty acids showed a negative association with NOS in both univariate and multivariate analyses .
Result	No associations were found between AA , DHA and total trans-fatty acids with PDI or MDI .
Result	In conclusion , neonates with a relatively low DHA status and those with high trans-fatty acid levels have a less favorable neurologic condition at 18 mo. .

Background	We evaluated the efficacy of physiotherapy , occupational therapy , and speech and language therapy in Parkinson 's disease by synthesizing six Cochrane systematic reviews .
Method	All randomised , controlled trials examining the efficacy of a paramedical therapy versus control intervention and all those comparing the efficacy of two forms of active therapy in Parkinson 's disease were included .
Method	Trials were identified by searching biomedical databases , reference lists , hand searching , and contacting investigators .
Method	The main outcome measures were quality of life , speech intelligibility , activities of daily living , and individual measures of motor and speech impairment .
Result	We identified 16 physiotherapy randomised controlled trials ( 399 patients ) , two occupational therapy trials ( 84 patients ) , and five speech and language therapy for dysarthria trials ( 154 patients ) .
Result	None of these studies examined nonpharmacological swallowing therapy for dysphagia .
Result	We were unable to perform meta-analysis of the results because the trials used heterogeneous therapy methods and outcome measures .
Result	The trials also had marked methodological flaws that could have introduced bias .
Result	In summary , we failed to find conclusive evidence of benefit for any form of paramedical therapy sufficient to recommend them in routine clinical practice .
Result	However , this lack of evidence is not proof of a lack of effect .
Result	Further large pragmatic randomised controlled trials are required to determine the effectiveness of paramedical therapies in Parkinson 's disease .

Background	The purpose of this study was to assess factors that affect the quality of performance and interpretation of sonography of adnexal masses .
Method	Two gynecologic sonographers performed blinded reviews of up to 3 sonograms within 5 years before surgery in 325 consecutive women who underwent oophorectomy ( 610 sonograms ) .
Method	Three 5-point quality scores were assigned ( with 5 being the best score ) on the basis of the technical quality of the images , accurate description of findings , and summary impression in the report .
Method	The location of the examination ( on-site , remote , or emergency department ) , type of fellowship , practice experience ( < 5 , 5-10 , or > 10 years ) , and specialty ( women 's imaging , abdominal imaging , or other ) of the radiologists were recorded .
Method	Analysis of variance was used to assess the impact of these multiple factors on quality .
Result	No significant differences were found among 31 radiologists on the basis of the type of training , years in practice , or number of examinations read .
Result	Average scores among radiologists for technical quality , findings , and impressions were 4.96 , 4.88 , and 4.83 , respectively .
Result	Radiologists who specialized in women 's imaging performed best in the quality of their impressions ( 4.86 versus 4.79 ; P = .029 ) .
Result	There were no significant differences in scores with respect to the examination location .
Result	Within this sample of radiologists , the technical quality of the examinations was not affected by the type of training or subspecialty practice .
Result	Reports of adnexal mass findings were accurately described by all radiologists , although specialization in women 's imaging improved the ability to provide an accurate impression .

Background	OBJECTIVE -- To determine whether the additional costs of preconception care are balanced by the savings from averted complications .
Background	Several studies have demonstrated the efficacy of preconception care in reducing congenital anomalies in infants born of mothers with pre-existing diabetes mellitus .
Method	RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS -- This study used literature review , consensus development among an expert panel of physicians , and surveys of medical care personnel to obtain information about the costs and consequences of preconception plus prenatal care com
Background	Preconception care involves close interaction between the patient and an interdisciplinary health-care team as well as intensified evaluation , follow-up , testing , and monitoring .
Method	The outcome measures assessed in this study are the medical costs of preconception care versus prenatal care only and the benefit-cost ratio .
Result	RESULTS -- The costs of preconception plus prenatal care are $ 17,519 / delivery , whereas the costs of prenatal care only are $ 13,843 / delivery .
Result	Taking into account maternal and neonatal adverse outcomes , the net savings of preconception care are $ 1720/enrollee over prenatal care only and the benefit-cost ratio is 1.86 .
Result	The preconception care program remained cost saving across a wide range of assumptions regarding incidence of adverse outcomes and program cost components .
Result	CONCLUSIONS -- Despite significantly higher per delivery costs for participants in a hypothetical preconception care program , intensive medical care before conception resulted in cost savings compared with prenatal care only .
Result	Third-party payers can expect to realize cost savings by reimbursing preconception care in this high-risk population .

Background	The reported incidence of bone complications after radiation therapy is quite low .
Background	The most commonly seen bone complication is insufficiency fractures of the pubis and sacrum .
Background	Treatment of insufficiency fractures consists of conservative care , and mineral replacement may be useful .
Background	The resolution of symptoms takes at least one year with these treatments .
Background	Vascular damage has an important role in the etiology of late radiation injury in normal tissues .
Background	Progressive ischemic changes further weaken the bone structure , which can cause fractures , and healing is also delayed .
Background	Pentoxifylline is a methylxanthine derivative that is shown to increase tissue blood flow .
Method	Here , we present a 63-year-old male patient with pelvic insufficiency fractures due to postoperative pelvic irradiation for rectal adenocarcinoma .
Method	The patient received pelvic radiotherapy to a total dose of 50.4 Gy with concomitant 5-FU .
Method	Six months after the completion of radiotherapy , the patient presented with severe pelvic pain .
Result	Pelvic magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) demonstrated abnormal signal intensity with insufficiency fractures at the sacrum and bone marrow edema near the fractures , but not an abnormal intensity that revealed bone metastases .
Result	Neither distant nor locoregional recurrence was observed at his work-up .
Result	The final diagnosis was insufficiency fractures of the pelvic bones owing to irradiation , and pentoxifylline ( 400 mg , 3 times daily , peroral , 1,200 mg/day ) was used for eight months as treatment .
Result	Dramatic clinical improvement was obtained in six months , and objective healing was revealed with MRI .
Result	We concluded that pentoxifylline is a cost-effective drug with minimal adverse effects in treating radiation damage of bone .

Background	To develop a reliable , objective and sensitive measure of axial trunk rotations in PD , which can be applied in an ambulatory setting .
Method	To quantify turning motion , two angular velocity transducers attached to the lower back measured angular velocity of the trunk in the yaw plane ( i.e. , around the longitudinal axis ) and the roll plane ( i.e. , medio-lateral movements ) in freely moving subjec
Result	Turn duration was longer in PD patients compared to controls .
Result	Peak yaw and peak roll angular velocities were lower in PD patients compared to controls during all turning tasks .
Result	This new approach to measure trunk sway during a simple turning task might serve as an instrument to objectively quantify turning while walking in PD .
Result	It proves difficult to objectively assess turning performance based upon history taking or clinical examination alone .
Result	Objective and easy measurement of axial turning in PD might be used for clinical evaluation , but also in a domestic setting as outcome measure in intervention studies .
Result	Further research should focus on the clinical relevance of the new quantitative approach described in this paper , e.g. , to detect freezing of gait episodes .

Background	The objective was to study the effectiveness of a modified washing toilet seat equipped with a CCD camera monitor and an electronic bidet to facilitate precise hitting of the anal area with water streams to stimulate bowel movement in patients with spinal
Method	There were 20 subjects , all of whom had traumatic SCI , were at least 5 mos post acute injury , and could change their position on the toilet seat while watching the monitor .
Method	Stimulation of bowel movement with the modified toilet seat was provided for a maximum of 30 mins .
Method	Success or failure to induce bowel movement was evaluated as related to injury level , ASIA impairment scale , and ability to voluntarily increase anorectal pressure , measured with a manometory .
Result	Bowel movement was successfully induced in 15 of the 20 patients ( 75 % ) .
Result	Success was not related significantly to injury level , ASIA impairment scale , or ability to voluntarily squeeze .
Result	Compared with their usual manner of bowel management , for which they spent more than 30 mins , time needed for successful bowel movement was shortened in 11 of 13 patients .
Result	No complications were observed .
Result	This preliminary study suggests that our newly modified washing toilet seat with a monitoring system could be a useful alternative for bowel management in patients with SCI .

Method	A retrospective study of 63 obese patients seen in a hospital outpatient nutrition clinic was reported .
Method	The majority suffered from one or more other medical problems .
Method	The relationship of amount of and rate of weight loss to various factors was examined .
Result	The multivariate analysis revealed that either the amount or rate of weight loss was greater in the patients who were more overweight initially , white , male , young , single , older at age of onset of obesity , visited the clinic for a longer period of time b
Result	Conversely , the amount or rate of weight loss was less in those patients receiving conjugated estrogens , oral contraceptives , propranolol , thioridazine HCl , and those who were receiving behavior modification as treatment.age factorsbehaviorbiologybody wei

Background	Eighteen well motivated patients with advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , who had had at least four hospitalizations during the previous two years , were included in a home-based telemedicine study .
Method	A visiting nurse was equipped with a case containing a laptop computer and a number of medical devices , including an electrocardiogram recorder , spirometer , oximeter and blood pressure monitor .
Method	It also contained a videoconference camera , for realtime audiovisual connection with the hospital using the patient 's TV set .
Method	A single ISDN line ( 128 kbit/s ) was installed in each house before the study began .
Result	After nine months , there was a decrease in hospitalizations , emergency department visits and use of health services .
Result	The patient 's disease knowledge and self-management also improved .
Result	It seems likely that adopting telemedicine in everyday clinical practice could substantially improve the care of chronically ill patients .

Background	The significant morbidity and mortality associated with severe depression and its psychotic or melancholic subtypes necessitate effective and well-tolerated therapy .
Background	This review evaluates antidepressant treatments for patients with severe depression .
Method	Comparative clinical trials conducted on patients with severe depression were found by an English-language MEDLINE search ( 1985 to present ) .
Method	Additional studies were identified in article bibliographies .
Method	Search terms included depressive disorders , depression and severe , hospitalized , melancholic or melancholia , psychotic , and endogenous .
Result	Evidence for efficacy of SSRIs in severe or melancholic depression comes from a small but growing number of controlled studies with adequate samples , as well as meta-analyses and retrospective subgroup analysis of premarketing trials .
Result	In studies that defined response as a 50 % or greater reduction in Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression ( HAM-D ) scores , response rates ranged from 53 % to 64 % for SSRIs and 43 % to 70 % for TCAs .
Result	In separate trials on severe depression , venlafaxine and mirtazapine were both more effective than placebo and an active comparator .
Result	Nefazodone and bupropion were each found to be more effective than placebo in studies of severe depression .
Result	Venlafaxine and mirtazapine have been found to be more effective than fluoxetine .
Result	SSRIs and TCAs are comparably effective for the treatment of severe or melancholic depression .
Result	SSRIs and other newer agents appear to be better tolerated than TCAs , specifically lacking adverse anticholinergic and cardiovascular effects that may limit the use of TCAs .
Result	Emerging data with venlafaxine and mirtazapine in severely depressed patients with or without melancholia support the efficacy of these treatments .
Result	Nefazodone and bupropion were found to be effective in hospitalized depressed patients .
Result	Electroconvulsive therapy ( ECT ) or combined antidepressant therapy may be useful in some patients with severe depression .
Result	Patients with severe psychotic depression may respond better to an antipsychotic-antidepressant combination .

Background	A 78-year-old male patient had chronic , unrelieved abdominal pain due to mesenteric ischaemia .
Background	Unsuccessful pharmacological approaches included oral morphine plus coadjuvants as well as a sympathetic celiac plexus block which gave pain relief that lasted for 72 h.
Method	In order to obtain long-lasting relief , a trial epidural stimulating electrode was implanted after obtaining informed consent and Ethical Committee approval .
Result	Complete analgesia was achieved during a trial period of 2 weeks .
Result	Thereafter , a spinal cord stimulator was implanted .
Result	At the time of writing , 11 months after implantation , the degree of analgesia is complete .
Result	We believe that spinal cord stimulation may represent an alternative approach in controlling pain due to mesenteric ischaemia .

Background	The levels of Cognitive Functioning Assessment Scale ( LOCFAS ) is a behavioral checklist that includes behaviors commonly seen in patients during the earliest stages of recovery from traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Method	The LOCFAS and the Disability Rating Scale were used four times each week to evaluate 28 patients who had had TBI ; this was done throughout their acute care hospitalization .
Method	The Glasgow Coma Scale , Stover-Zeiger Scale , and Expanded Glasgow Outcome Scale also were used to evaluate patients at their initial assessment and at the time of their discharge .
Result	Concurrent validity ( r > .85 ) , both at the initial assessment and discharge , and predictive validity ( r > .70 ) were high .
Result	The daily stability and interrater reliability ( r = .99 ) of the LOCFAS also were good .

Background	A majority of psychiatric medications are known to generate weight gain and ultimately obesity in some patients .
Background	There is much speculation about the prevalence of weight gain and the degree of weight gain during acute and longitudinal treatment with these agents .
Background	There is newer literature looking at the aetiology of this weight gain and the potential treatments being used to alleviate this side-effect .
Background	We found solid evidence that weight gain is often associated with the mood stabilizers , and antipsychotics and antidepressants .
Background	Only few weight neutral or weight loss producing psychotropics are available , and weight gain , outside of an immediate side-effect , may generate secondary side-effects and medical comorbidity .
Background	Given the likelihood of inducing weight gain with psychotropic medications and the longitudinal impact on physical health , a thorough literatu

Background	Since the advent of fiberoptic endoscopy and the introduction of colonoscopic polypectomy , a simple and cost-effective procedure has been available to deal with an exceedingly common problem , the colonic polyp .
Background	Although polyps in the gastrointestinal tract have a varied natural history , there is strong evidence that adenomatous colonic polyps have a potential for malignant degeneration and that virtually all colorectal cancers arise from adenomatous polyps .
Background	This article will review some basic features of the endoscopic approaches and problems associated with polypectomy .

Method	In a pilot study six patients with active ulcerative colitis and six healthy controls were given fish oil ( MaxEPA ) containing 3-4 g of eicosapentaenoic acid daily for a period of 12 weeks .
Result	There was a significant improvement in the patients ' symptoms and histological appearance of the rectal mucosa by the end of the treatment period .
Result	There was significant fall in neutrophil chemiluminescence during treatment in patients , whereas no change was observed in the control group .
Result	Neutrophil leukotriene B4 levels fell significantly during treatment .
Result	Serum from patients receiving fish oil was significantly less chemotactic for neutrophils compared with control serum .
Result	Eicosapentaenoic acid inhibited neutrophil chemotaxis and chemiluminescence in vitro .
Result	The omega-3 fatty acids , which occur naturally in fish oils , may exert a beneficial effect by decreasing the production of inflammatory mediators .

Background	At present there are no standardized recommendations concerning physiotherapy of individuals with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) resulting in a high variability of methods and intensity .
Method	The aim of this literature review is to develop recommendations concerning physiotherapy in the post-acute phase after TBI on the basis of scientific evidence .
Method	METHOD : literature review : data bases : PubMed , PEDro , OT-Seeker , Cochrane and Cinahl .
Method	Keywords brain injury ( in PEDro , OT-Seeker , Cochrane ) , brain injury AND physical therapy ( in PubMed and Cinahl ) .
Method	Fourteen studies met the inclusion criteria and were grouped into sub-groups sensory stimulation , therapy intensity , casting/splinting , exercise or aerobic training and functional skill training .
Result	While for sensory stimulation evidence could not be proven , a strong evidence exists that more intensive rehabilitation programmes lead to earlier functional abilities .
Result	The recommendation due to casting for the improvement of passive range of motion is a grade B , while only a C recommendation is appropriate concerning tonus reduction .
Result	Strong evidence exists that intensive task-orientated rehabilitation programmes lead to earlier and better functional abilities .
Result	Although some recommendations for the effectiveness of physical therapy interventions could be expressed , there are many questions concerning the treatment of humans with TBI which have not been investigated so far .
Result	Especially on the level of activity and participation only a few studies exist .

Method	From this and the previous article , the following points may be offered in summary
Result	When comparing the elderly age group with the general population , the incidence of migraine headaches decreases with age , whereas other etiologies such as glaucoma , temporal arteritis , and cerebrovascular disease may assume a more prominent role in the di
Result	Patients in the geriatric population are frequently taking a multitude of medications , and it is extremely important to carefully evaluate these for possible precipitants of headache .
Result	Furthermore , in elderly patients with other potential medical problems , particular attention should be paid to the possibility of various systemic causes of headache .
Result	Therapy for specific headache disorders should be tailored to the individual patient .
Result	Consider the patient 's overall general , psychological , medical , and neurologic background .
Result	The physician must be aware of possible interactions of medications with the therapeutic intervention , as well as possible poor tolerance to specific medications due to preexisting medical or neurologic disorders .
Result	A complete history , obtaining information on the temporal pattern of headache , the distribution of pain , and precipitating and alleviating factors , is extremely important in evaluating the elderly patient .
Result	A careful physical examination , paying particular attention to possible disorders of extracranial structures , is indicated .
Result	A neurologic exam , including basic tests of higher cortical function , should be obtained .
Result	Important additional laboratory investigations include a complete blood count , erythrocyte sedimentation rate , and basic blood chemistries .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	Mayo Clinic has a long-standing reputation as a leader in the basic and clinical sciences .
Background	However , there is little in the published literature about Mayo Clinic 's contributions to the delivery of health care services .
Background	This article is an overview of what Mayo brought to health care delivery between the 1860s and the 1980s , highlighting some of the lesser-known innovations that have influenced health care delivery on a national and international level such as the develop

Background	For the diagnosis and differential diagnosis of malignant tumors of the ovaries , transvaginal ultrasound is currently the preferred method .
Background	Ultrasound is indispensable for the pre-operative assessment of the biological significance of an ovarian tumor .
Background	With its aid , the indication for a surgical procedure can be established with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity and , where appropriate , the therapeutic approach definitively established .
Background	A further important application is screening for the early detection of an ovarian cancer .
Result	Although a high level of sensitivity and specificity can also be achieved for such an indication , an otherwise desirable screening procedure -- at least in high-risk groups and post-menopausal women -- is nevertheless controversial on account of the low preva

Background	Obesity is associated with increased morbidity and mortality from atherosclerotic disease .
Background	Lipid abnormalities contribute to the increased relative risk in obese subjects .
Background	Cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) mass is increased in these patients and might mediate the atherogenic lipoprotein pattern observed in obesity .
Method	Twenty-one morbidly obese , middle-aged , female subjects participated in this prospective study .
Method	Subjects were examined before and 1 year after surgical treatment .
Method	Fat mass was determined by body impedance analysis ; CETP mass , by ELISA ; CETP activity , by exogenous substrate assay ; and LDL particle diameter , by gradient gel electrophoresis .
Result	Mean weight loss after 1 year was 28.7 kg ; mean fat mass loss was 22.6 kg .
Result	Mean CETP mass decreased from 1.81 to 1.32 microg/mL ( P = 0.008 ) ; mean CETP activity decreased from 244 to 184 nmol x mL ( -1 ) x h ( -1 ) ( P = 0.004 ) ; and in parallel , the mean diameter of LDL particles increased ( 256.8 to 258.4 A , P = 0.04 ) .
Result	We conclude that weight loss is associated with a pronounced decrease in CETP mass and activity and a consistent increase in LDL particle diameter .
Result	After 1 year of this prospective study in morbidly obese subjects undergoing weight loss by surgical treatment , it has been determined that some features of the atherogenic lipoprotein profile can be reversed .

Background	This study determined whether maternal glucose tolerance has a progressive effect on the length of gestation in singleton pregnancies and whether there is an increasing tendency towards spontaneous preterm birth with increasing glucose intolerance .
Method	A total of 2,168 consecutive Chinese women with singleton pregnancies who underwent the 75-g oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) over a 24-month period were categorized by their OGTT 2-hour value ( mmol/L ) into the following six groups : 5.9 or less , 6.0-6 .9
Method	Women with a 2-hour glucose value of 8.0 or more mmol/L were considered to have gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) and received diet treatment .
Method	Women who eventually required insulin were excluded from the final analysis .
Method	The mean gestational age , birth weight , incidence of preterm birth , large for gestational age ( LGA , birth weight > 90th percentile ) , and macrosomic ( birth weight > or = 4.0 kg ) infants were compared among the six groups .
Result	The incidence of preterm birth correlated significantly with increasing glucose intolerance .
Result	On further analysis , incidence of spontaneous birth before 37 weeks in the lowest to the highest 2-hour value groups was as follows : 5.5 % , 2.6 % , 3.7 % , 4.9 % , 8.5 % , and 10.3 % ( P = .015 ) and that before 32 weeks went from 0.4 % , 0.3 % , 0.8 % , 0.4 % , 2.2 % , to 3.4 %
Result	There was no significant difference in the incidence of LGA or macrosomic infants .
Result	Regression analysis confirmed that the OGTT 2-hour glucose value was an independent determinant of gestational length .
Result	Gestational glucose intolerance affects gestation length and incidence of preterm birth , which should be considered a confounding factor in the analysis of the neonatal outcome of GDM pregnancies .

Method	The purpose of this interpretive phenomenological study was to generate knowledge about the experience of living with the diagnosis of borderline personality disorder .
Method	Persons identified as meeting DSM-III-R ( American Psychiatric Association , 1987 ) or DSM-IV ( American Psychiatric Association , 1994 ) criteria for borderline personality disorder were invited to participate in a private interview focusing on what it means t
Method	The data were analyzed using the procedures of interpretive phenomenological data analysis ( Benner , 1994 ; Diekelmann , Allen , & Tanner , 1989 ) .
Result	Three themes were identified : ( a ) living with a label , ( b ) living with self-destructive behavior perceived as manipulation , and ( c ) living with limited access to care .
Result	The findings suggest that mental health care for persons with borderline personality disorder could be improved by confronting prejudice , understanding self-harm , and safeguarding opportunities for dialogue .

Background	To evaluate the feasibility of using a newly developed electromechanical gait device ( LokoHelp ) for locomotion training in neurological patients with impaired walking ability with respect to training effects and patients ' and therapists ' efforts and disco
Method	METHODS AND PROCEDURES : design : Case series .
Method	setting
Method	A neurological rehabilitation centre for children , adolescents and young adults .
Method	subjects
Method	Six patients with impaired walking function : two after stroke , two after spinal cord injury and two after brain injury .
Method	Intervention
Method	Twenty additional training sessions on a treadmill fitted with a newly developed electromechanical gait device and body weight support ( BWS ) , performed over a study-period of 6 weeks .
Method	Patients ' progress was assessed with the following instruments the Functional Ambulation Category FAC ( walking ability ) , the 10-metre walk test ( gait velocity ) , the Motricity Index ( lower limb strength ) , the Berg Balance Scale ( postural capacity ) , the modified Ashworth Scale ( spasticity ) and the Rivermead Mobility Index ( activity ) .
Method	After each therapy session , therapists completed a form , thereby indicating whether manual assistance was necessary and , if so , how much physical effort was expended and how much discomfort was experienced during the therapy session .
Result	The therapists also indicated on the form information about the patient 's effort and discomfort .
Result	No severe adverse events were observed during the locomotion training with the LokoHelp device .
Result	Patients improved with regard to Functional Ambulation Category ( FAC ) ( from mean 0.7 , SD = 1.6 , to mean 2.5 , SD = 2.1 , p = 0.048 ) , Motricity Index ( from mean 94 points , SD = 50 , to mean 111 , SD = 52 , p = 0.086 ) , Berg Balance Scale ( BBS ) ( from mean 20 poin
Result	Therapists required a low level of effort to carry out the training and seldom experienced discomfort .
Result	Patients described their effort during training as being low-to-exhausting .
Result	They rarely experienced discomfort , which was mostly related to difficulties with the BWS-System .
Result	Training intensity had to be adjusted in one patient who complained of knee pain .
Result	Locomotion training with the newly developed ` LokoHelp ' - system is feasible in severely affected patients after brain injury , stroke and spinal cord injury .
Result	In addition , our results indicate that the described alternative method of gait training may decrease the exertion needed by therapists to carry out the training .

Background	Here we report the first case of prenatally diagnosed fetal renal mesoblastic nephroma occurring after transfer of a cryopreserved embryo .
Background	A 37 year old woman , having immunological infertility , was treated by in-vitro fertilization ( IVF ) and embryo transfer .
Method	Following unsuccessful IVF using fresh embryos , the patient conceived after transfer of cryopreserved-thawed embryos .
Background	The chromosomal analysis identified a normal karyotype at 16 weeks ' gestation when amniocentesis was performed .
Background	The pregnancy course was uneventful until 28 weeks ' gestation when polyhydramnios associated with fetal renal tumour was detected using ultrasonography .
Result	A male infant weighing 2564 g was born via Caesarean section at 34 weeks ' gestation .
Result	A left nephrectomy was performed 5 days after delivery and the tumour was identified histologically as a mesoblastic nephroma .
Result	The postoperative course was uncomplicated to this point .

Background	To test the effectiveness of a home based developmental education intervention in improving outcome at 5 years for very preterm infants .
Method	The Avon Premature Infant Project ( APIP ) is a randomised controlled trial in which the parents of 284 babies born < 33 weeks gestational age received a developmental education programme , a social support intervention , or standard care .
Method	A term reference population was also recruited .
Method	This study reports outcomes at 5 years ( mean age 58 months 15 days ) for 187 ( 66 % ) of these children without disability .
Method	Outcomes were assessed using the British Ability Scales II for cognitive development , the Movement ABC for motor impairment , and the Child Behavior Checklist for behavioural problems .
Result	Preterm infants showed poorer cognitive performance than their term peers .
Result	Mean ( SD ) general conceptual ability ( GCA ) scores were : Portage 99.2 ( 15.7 ) ; parent adviser 100.3 ( 14.8 ) ; preterm control 101.1 ( 15.0 ) ; term reference 107.2 ( 13.4 ) .
Result	There were no significant differences between preterm groups in GCA scores indicating no effect of either intervention .
Result	Similarly , there was no significant effect of intervention on behavioural or motor outcomes .
Result	Further analyses , in which outcome data were adjusted for social factors , did not reveal any differences between the three preterm groups or by subgroups classified by a range of perinatal variables .
Result	The small advantage shown at 2 years of age is no longer detectable at 5 years .
Result	These results question the effectiveness of early intervention in enhancing cognitive , behavioural , and motor function at 5 years .

Method	A retrospective review .
Method	The purpose of this study is to document a series of cases of neurologic deficit following percutaneous vertebral stabilization , to identify patterns of neurologic injury , and to describe potential methods for avoiding these injuries .
Background	Percutaneous vertebral stabilization procedures , including vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty , have become a widely used for the treatment of osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures , primary and metastatic vertebral tumors , and traumatic burst fractures .
Background	Despite an increasing array of indications , there have been few reports of adverse events .
Background	Neurologic complications associated with vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty have been described previously as case reports and have generally been considered as infrequent and minor in severity .
Method	The clinical course of 14 patients with documented loss of neurologic function following percutaneous vertebral cement augmentation was retrospectively reviewed .
Method	The average patient age was 74.9 years ( range , 46-88 years ) with 3 male and 11 female patients .
Result	Four patients underwent a vertebroplasty procedure while 10 were treated with kyphoplasty .
Result	Six patients developed neurologic deficits acutely ( < 24 hours of procedure ) .
Result	The remaining 8 patients developed neurologic symptoms at an average of 37.1 days ( range , 3-112 days ) postprocedure .
Result	Neurologic deficits were recorded as ASIA A in 4 patients , ASIA B in 2 patients , ASIA C in 1 patient , and ASIA D in 7 patients .
Result	Twelve of 14 patients ( 85.7 % ) required revision open surgical intervention for treatment of their neurologic injury .
Result	Percutaneous vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty have been reported to be safe options for the treatment of painful osteoporotic vertebral fractures .
Result	Although complications are infrequent , there remains the potential for catastrophic neurologic injury .
Result	Physicians performing these procedures need to be aware of these potential complications and be prepared to respond in an emergent manner ( surgically ) if a need arises .

Background	State government entities have created a range of innovative electronic information systems to support their diverse and evolving roles in the health care system .
Background	Primary goals of these initiatives include improvement of traditional public health programs , meaningful oversight of providers , simplification of administrative procedures , and support of state purchasing decisions .
Background	We establish a taxonomy of state efforts , describing primary capabilities to ( 1 ) provide meaningful data to state decisionmakers ; ( 2 ) disseminate information to purchasers and consumers ; ( 3 ) coordinate and improve government services ; ( 4 ) establish mechan
Background	Reductions in the costs of technology and use of the Internet have dramatically increased state capabilities in recent years .
Background	Both the successes and failures of existing programs offer important lessons for states that are initiating new electronic communication initiatives .

Background	Balancing risks and benefits of fish consumption is now a high visibility public health topic .
Background	Many studies identify health benefits of eating fish , both for prenatal development and adult cardiovascular conditions , partly attributed to omega-3 ( n-3 ) polyunsaturated fatty acids or PUFAs ) .
Background	Many reports raise concerns about methylmercury and polychlorinated biphenyl effects on the developing fetal brain ( although adults , too , can manifest methylmercury effects ) .
Background	Most reports and advisories focus on recreational or subsistence fish , but the vast majority of people obtain most or all of their fish from commercial sources .
Method	Our analysis of the nine most common fish in New Jersey markets , yielded a weighted average methylmercury concentration of 0.23 ug/g ( ppm wet weight ) .
Background	There are great disparities in the amount and distribution of both PUFAs and contaminants ) in different fish species .
Background	Recognizing that both benefits and harm must be related to dose , we propose a compound dose-response curve , currently based on limited data , to identify a zone of benefit , above the benefit threshold and below the harm threshold .
Background	The duration of pregnancy and birth weight improve at a benefit threshold of about 8-15 g/day maternal fish intake .
Result	Meta-analyses reveal adult cardiovascular benefits around 7.5-22 .5 g/day bracket ( assuming an 8 ounce/227 g typical meal ) , yielding a midpoint also at 15 g/day , but this is an artifact of the intake stratification .
Result	Benefit asymptotes are harder to extract , but are above 45 g/day , and in some studies exceed 100g/day .
Result	Using the EPA Reference Dose of 0.1 ug/kg day as a methylmercury threshold , The fish intake threshold for harm converts to 27 g/day ( for a selection of common commercial fish averaging 0.23 ppm MeHg ) to 65 g/day for someone choosing fish low in MeHg ( 0.1
Result	However , these are worst case thresholds since the RfD includes uncertainty factors .
Result	Some people eat much more than 65 g/day .
Result	The shape of the dose-benefit and dose-harm curves require better data for estimating thresholds and asymptotes , which will impact the composite curve .
Result	We propose this approach clarifies the kinds of data needed to improve risk communication on `` what should I eat '' .
Result	Benefits from fish consumption are confounded by socioeconomic class and/or by the avoidance of more harmful foods that fish replaces , which may be as important a benefit mechanism as the PUFA content .
Result	Additional studies with better dose-reconstruction are needed and large scale intervention studies are desirable .

Background	Expression of nitric oxide synthase ( NOS ) mRNA in post mortem brain was studied in putamen , globus pallidus and subthalamic nucleus ( STN ) of neurologically normal control subjects and patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) using in situ hybridization hist
Result	In PD , a significant increase in NOS mRNA expression was observed in the dorsal two-thirds of the STN with respect to the ventral one-third of the STN .
Result	A significant increase in NOS mRNA expression per cell in the medial medullary lamina of the globus pallidus was also observed in PD .
Result	NOS mRNA expression was significantly reduced in PD putamen .
Result	These findings provide evidence of increased activity of STN neurotransmitter systems in PD and demonstrate for the first time in any species that basal ganglia nitric oxide systems can be selectively regulated in response to changes in dopaminergic input

Background	Morphine-induced constipation can lead to therapeutic disasters by several mechanisms .
Background	It can be readily prevented by administration of appropriate laxatives , but the importance of this simple intervention is often overlooked .
Background	Problems resulting from uncontrolled constipation include not only fecal impaction and spurious diarrhea , but also pseudoobstruction of bowel causing abdominal pain , nausea and vomiting , and serious interference with drug administration and absorption .
Background	Cancer pain may also be exacerbated .
Background	All of these contribute unnecessarily to morbidity and costs of health care .
Background	A case that exemplifies many of these problems is presented and discussed .

Background	The systematic recording of birthweight seems to have begun in Paris in 1802 and now birthweight is an essential piece of information which is part of the statutory notification of birth .
Background	Low birthweight infants make a disproportionate contribution to perinatal mortality .
Background	Reducing the incidence of low birthweight is more significant , clinically , than a rise in mean birthweight .
Background	Genetic factors , important in determining ultimate size , do not seem to have much influence on birthweight .
Background	The variation in birthweight between different ethnic groups is well documented .
Method	Meredith ( 1970 ) reviewed the world literature .
Background	Low mean birthweights were recorded almost exclusively in Africa , India , and the Far East , whereas the high means occurred mainly among Europeans and white Americans .
Background	In areas with high levels of immigration , medical professionals are conscious of the need for accurate information about ethnic groups , but the subject is associated with numerous problems .
Background	To compare ethnic groups , for whatever purpose , the epidemiologist needs to negotiate a `` minefield '' of social variables , nutritional uncertainties , and racial sensitivities .
Background	The members of a given ethnic group share both a genetic inheritance and a similar geographical , social , and cultural background .
Background	All of these must be considered .
Background	Immigration has provided an opportunity to study the effect of social and cultural adaptation and to identify those features which are apparently immutable .
Background	At the recent conference at the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists on the obstetric problems of Asian immigrants in Britain , it was shown that poor fetal growth is associated with deficiencies of minerals and protein due to dietary habits .
Background	Viegas et al. ( 1982 ) suggested that birthweights can be increased by giving protein supplements to Asian women during the 3rd trimester .
Background	In Israel the problems are very different .
Background	Israel contains a variety of immigrants at various stages of cultural assimilation .
Background	Marked differences have been observed between Jewish immigrants from Europe , the US , North Africa , and the Middle East who , although all Jewish , differed in cultural and genetic background .
Result	Babies born to mothers who came from North Africa were , on the average , heavier than those of other ethnic groups , in spite of lower social class .
Result	Yet , the birthweight advantage was eroded with adaptation to Israeli culture .
Result	The issue is whether these differences in birthweight matter.biologybirth weightbody weightcultural backgroundculturedemographic factorsenglandethnic groupsinternational migrationisraelmigrationphysiologypopulationpopulation characteristics

Background	In order to clarify whether or not marked changes in the social environment during the past 50 years in Japan may have altered the clinical phenotypes of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , we retrospectively analyzed 143 consecutive patients with clinically definit
Result	Fifty-two patients were classified as Asian type MS showing a selective involvement of the optic nerves and the spinal cord , while 91 patients were considered to have Western type MS which demonstrated the involvement of multiple sites in the central nerv
Result	The ratio of Asian type versus Western type MS was 1:0.5 in the patients born in the 1920s and 1:1.27 , 1:1.64 and 1:1.7 in those born in the 1930s , 1940s and 1950s , respectively , and thereafter it increased to 1:4.67 in those born in the 1960s and 1:4 in
Result	As a result , the proportion of Asian type MS significantly decreased in the patients born after 1960 as compared with those born from 1930 to 1959 ( P = 0.0121 ) .
Result	In the Asian type MS , the age of onset was significantly higher in the patients who developed the disease from 1985 to 1997 ( 42.4 + / -13.5 years ) than in those who developed the disease from 1950 to 1984 ( 32.3 + / -12.4 years ) ( P = 0.0149 ) , while in the Western
Result	These findings suggest that the frequency of Asian type MS has apparently decreased in younger Japanese born after 1960 when Japan 's rapid economic growth had just started , and environmental factors are therefore considered to contribute to determine the

Background	The aim of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the tolerability , safety and efficacy of antialdosterone therapy in patients with heart failure admitted to our ambulatory from June 1995 to September 2003 .
Method	One hundred and fifty-seven consecutive patients ( mean age 64 + / - 11.6 years ) were enrolled in the study ; they were in NYHA class I-IV , on ACE-inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker therapy , and were treated with canrenone if they were in NYHA class I -
Method	The mean follow-up was 38.7 + / - 21.2 months .
Method	Patients were divided into two groups according to either therapy ( group 1 : 124 patients , 79 % , on antialdosterone therapy ; group 2 : 33 patients , 21 % , on no antialdosterone therapy ) or ischemic and non-ischemic etiology ( group A : 71 patients , 45.2 % , and gr
Method	Serum creatinine and plasma potassium levels , left ventricular ejection fraction , NYHA class , adverse effects , and mortality were evaluated .
Result	The mean dose of canrenone was 37 + / - 19.9 mg/day .
Result	Creatinine levels did not change significantly whereas potassium levels slightly increased in group 1 vs group 2 ( p < 0.01 ) and in group A vs group B ( p < 0.01 ) .
Result	Treatment was discontinued by only 12 patients ( 8.1 % ) due to hyperkalemia in 8 cases ( 6.5 % ) , gynecomastia in 2 cases ( 1.6 % ) , urticaria in 1 case ( 0.8 % ) , and nausea in 1 case ( 0.8 % ) .
Result	Left ventricular ejection fraction increased in all groups ( p < 0.001 ) with the exception of the subgroup B/group 2 ( p = NS ) .
Result	The NYHA class improved significantly in group 1 ( p < 0.01 ) .
Result	The total mortality rate was 10.8 % ( 17 cases ) , of which 10.5 % ( 13 cases ) in group 1 and 12.1 % ( 4 cases ) in group 2 and due to sudden death in 3 group 1 patients ( 2.4 % ) and in 2 group 2 patients ( 6 % ) .
Result	This study shows a good tolerability , safety , and efficacy , and poor adverse effects of canrenone therapy in combination with ACE-inhibitors , angiotensin receptor blockers and beta-blockers in patients with chronic heart failure .
Result	Therapy should be monitored by serial clinical and laboratory controls and gradually titrated up to the maximal tolerated dosage .

Background	To assess the effect of assisted conception ( AC ) on retinopathy of prematurity ( ROP ) and ROP screening .
Method	Follow-up to the study by McKibbin et al. .
Method	Retrospective study utilising computerised databases of ROP screening , live births , AC and multiple births between 1st April 2000 and 31st August 2003 at St James 's Hospital ( SJUH ) Leeds .
Method	chi ( 2 ) tests of significance were used .
Result	ROP screening was undertaken in 11/265 ( 4.2 % ) of AC births versus 1.6 % of all SJUH births .
Result	This is significantly less than the 20.3 % of AC babies screened in McKibbin et al study ( P = < 0.01 ) .
Result	There was no ROP detected in the 11 AC babies .
Result	Of all AC births , 36.9 % were one of twins and 1.5 % from triplet births compared to 46.0 % one of twins and 18.6 % one of triplets in McKibbin 's study .
Result	The percentage of AC babies requiring ROP screening has fallen since McKibbin et al study which was performed between August 1991 and December 1994 .
Result	This appears to be at least partially due to the reduced multiple birth rates .
Result	This reduction in the multiple birth rates follows evidence that reducing the number of embryos transferred does not reduce the number of couples taking home a baby and Human Fertility and Embryology Association guidelines recommending ` no more than two e
Result	Changes in clinical practice at SJUH have significantly reduced the likelihood of AC babies requiring ROP screening and developing ROP .

Background	To date , five single base pair changes of the mitochondrial DNA have been reported to occur either exclusively or with increased frequency in Caucasian patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and it has been postulated that these mutations might be casuall
Method	To evaluate these findings , we analysed the frequency of all five polymorphisms in 100 cases of pathologically proven cases of PD .
Result	We were either unable to detect the previously described polymorphisms in our series or found them to be present with the same frequency among controls .
Result	Our data do not support the hypothesis of an involvement of the mitochondrial DNA in the pathogenesis of PD .

Background	Ovarian damage following cancer therapy is dependent on age at treatment as well as the type of therapeutic exposures .
Background	Older age and exposure to higher doses of alkylating agents and higher doses of radiation to the ovary are associated with a greater likelihood of ovarian failure .
Background	Acute loss of ovarian function during or shortly following treatment is relatively uncommon in females treated during childhood and adolescence but can be seen following myeloablative , alkylator-based cytoreduction ( e.g. , busulfan and cyclophosphamide ) fo
Result	For survivors who retain normal ovarian function after cancer therapy , there is an increased risk of premature menopause later in life .
Result	The risk factors associated with an early menopause include exposure to high doses of alkylating agents and abdomino-pelvic radiation .

Background	Animal and epidemiological studies confirm an impact of the fatty-acid composition in the diet on cancer development .
Method	We investigated the role of supplementation of the diet of female F344-rats with sunflower , rapeseed , olive or coconut oil on the formation of the promutagenic , exocyclic 1,N2-propanodeoxyguanosine adduct of the main lipid peroxidation product 4-hydroxy-2
Method	This adduct is considered as the predominant DNA adduct arising from lipid peroxidation .
Result	The correlations between adduct levels and the different fatty acids were not uniform for all organs .
Result	No clear relationships between fatty acids and adduct levels were found in the colon .
Result	Significant positive correlations were observed between linoleic acid , total polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , vitamin E and DNA adduct levels in the small intestine and in the kidney .
Result	The results indicate an increasing effect on cancer risk in these organs as a result of high intake of linoleic acid .
Result	Inverse relationships between linoleic acid , PUFA and vitamin E intake and adduct levels were found in the glandular stomach and the lung .
Result	We could not confirm a chemopreventive effect of linolenic acid ( C-18 omega-3 PUFA ) on the formation of adducts in our animal study , as was shown in white blood cells of women in a previous study .
Result	A tendency towards a decrease in adduct levels was seen with monounsaturated fatty acids ( MUFAs ) in all organs except the lung .
Result	Saturated fatty acids showed a significant positive correlation with adduct levels in the mucosa of the glandular stomach and a significant inverse correlation in the small intestine .
Result	Saturated fatty acids are not considered to directly influence lipid peroxidation to a major extent .

Background	The majority of tissue Doppler indexes proposed to predict left ventricular ( LV ) reverse remodelling in cardiac resynchronization therapy ( CRT ) reflects LV asynchrony as assessed in ejection phase .
Method	We evaluated the predictive value of a new strain-imaging parameter reflecting the total amount of time spent by 12 LV segments in contracting after aortic valve closure .
Method	Fifty-nine patients who fulfilled current treatment recommendations were studied before and 6 months after CRT .
Method	Time to tissue Doppler systolic peak velocity ( Ts ) and time exceeding aortic closure ( ExcT ) in strain curves were measured in 12 LV segments .
Method	Ts standard deviation ( Ts-SD ) and sum of ExcT of overall 12 LV segments ( oExcT ) were analysed .
Method	After 6 months , responders were defined according to > or = 15 % LV end-systolic volume reduction .
Result	Responders ( 47 % ) when compared with non-responders ( 53 % ) had significantly higher baseline Ts-SD and oExcT values .
Result	Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis demonstrated that an optimal cutoff value of 760 ms for oExcT yielded 93.5 % sensitivity and 82.8 % specificity .
Result	For Ts-SD at the cutoff of 32 ms , 82 % sensitivity and 39 % specificity were obtained .
Result	Area under ROC was significantly larger for oExcT than for Ts-SD .
Result	o-ExcT is able to predict LV reverse remodelling after CRT .

Background	With almost a million people dying by suicide worldwide each year , reducing the rate of suicidal behaviour is a priority in many countries .
Method	To examine whether additional psychosocial interventions following an episode of self-harm reduce the likelihood of subsequent suicide .
Method	We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of data from randomised controlled trials of interventions for people following self-harm .
Method	Likelihood of suicide was compared by calculating the pooled root difference in suicide rate with 95 % confidence intervals .
Result	We obtained suicide data from 18 studies with a total population of 3918 .
Result	Eighteen suicides occurred among people offered active treatment and 19 among those offered standard care ( pooled root difference in suicide rate 0.0,95 % CI -0.03 to 0.03 ) .
Result	The overall rate of suicide among people participating in trials was similar to that reported in observational studies of people who self-harm .
Result	Results of this meta-analysis do not provide evidence that additional psychosocial interventions following self-harm have a marked effect on the likelihood of subsequent suicide .

Background	Patients with Parkinson disease ( PD ) may be akinetic/rigid , be tremor dominant , or have comparable severity of these motor symptoms ( classic ) .
Background	The pathophysiologic basis of different PD phenotypes is unknown .
Background	This study assessed pallidal and striatal dopamine level patterns in different motor subgroups of PD and normal control brains .
Method	Globus pallidus and striatum dopamine ( DA ) levels were measured with high performance liquid chromatography in eight autopsy confirmed PD and five control frozen brains .
Result	DA levels in the external globus pallidus ( GPe ) of normal brains were nearly six times greater than in the internal pallidum ( GPi ) .
Result	In PD , the mean loss of DA was marked ( -82 % ) in GPe and moderate ( -51 % ) in GPi .
Result	DA loss of variable degree was seen in different subdivisions of GPe and GPi in PD ; however , DA levels were near normal in the ventral ( rostral and caudal ) GPi of PD cases with prominent tremor .
Result	There was marked loss of DA ( -89 % ) in the caudate and severe loss ( -98.4 % ) in the putamen in PD .
Result	The pattern of pallidal DA loss did not match the putaminal DA loss .
Result	There is sufficient loss of dopamine ( DA ) in external globus pallidus and the internal globus pallidum ( GPi ) as may contribute to the motor manifestations of Parkinson disease ( PD ) .
Result	The possible functional disequilibrium between GABAergic and DAergic influences in favor of DA in the caudoventral parts of the GPi may contribute to resting tremor in tremor dominant and classic PD cases .

Background	An understanding of normal cerebral autoregulation and its response to pathological derangements is helpful in the diagnosis , monitoring , management , and prognosis of severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Background	Pressure autoregulation is the most common approach in testing the effects of mean arterial blood pressure on cerebral blood flow .
Background	A gold standard for measuring cerebral pressure autoregulation is not available , and the literature shows considerable disparity in methods .
Background	This fact is not surprising given that cerebral autoregulation is more a concept than a physically measurable entity .
Method	Alterations in cerebral autoregulation can vary from patient to patient and over time and are critical during the first 4-5 days after injury .
Background	An assessment of cerebral autoregulation as part of bedside neuromonitoring in the neurointensive care unit can allow the individualized treatment of secondary injury in a patient with severe TBI .
Background	The assessment of cerebral autoregulation is best achieved with dynamic autoregulation methods .
Background	Hyperventilation , hyperoxia , nitric oxide and its derivates , and erythropoietin are some of the therapies that can be helpful in managing cerebral autoregulation .
Background	In this review the authors summarize the most important points related to cerebral pressure autoregulation in TBI as applied in clinical practice , based on the literature as well as their own experience .

Background	An outpatient multimodal cognitive-behavioural treatment program ( MMCBT ) for chronic spinal pain was evaluated during an 18-month follow-up period .
Background	The treatment included a 1-day course for the patients ' work supervisors .
Background	The aim of the study was to evaluate the long-term effect of the treatment program as well as the effect of a work supervisor-training program on the patients ' return to work .
Method	The design was a matched cohort study with four repeated measures .
Method	Two groups of subjects suffering from non-specific spinal pain ( treatment group n = 67 , no treatment control group n = 29 ) were assessed with regard to pain intensity , sick-leave , pain coping ability and behavioural changes at work and in personal life .
Method	Recordings on supervisors attending the course and changes of supervisory behaviour were also obtained .
Result	The results show a significant between group difference in pain intensity and perceived pain coping ability at work , favouring the MMCBT group .
Result	Further , the MMCBT intervention enhances self-reported behavioural changes in areas within the subjects ' own control .
Result	There is not sufficient statistical support to accept the assumption of MMCBT being superior in reducing sick-leave , either with or without the education of supervisors .
Result	Even when supervisors changed their behaviour as reported by the patient , no significant effect was found on patients ' return to work .
Result	In conclusion , the MMCBT do not seem to be effective in reducing sick-leave compared to no treatment , but the MMCBT program is superior in decreasing pain intensity , enhancing self-reported behavioural changes in personal life and improving pain coping ab

Background	To determine whether nursing home residents with urinary incontinence ( UI ) have worse quality of life ( QoL ) than continent residents , whether the relationship between UI and QoL differs across strata of cognitive and functional impairment , and whether cha
Method	Retrospective cohort study using a Minimum Data Set ( MDS ) database to determine cross-sectional and longitudinal ( 6 month ) associations between UI and QoL .
Method	All Medicare - or Medicaid-licensed nursing homes in Kansas , Maine , Mississippi , New York , and South Dakota during 1994 to 1996 .
Method	All residents aged 65 and older , excluding persons unable to void or with potentially unstable continence or QoL status ( recent nursing home admission , coexistent delirium , large change in functional status , comatose , near death ) .
Method	UI was defined as consistent leakage at least twice weekly over 3 months and continence as consistent dryness over 3 months .
Method	QoL was measured using the validated MDS-derived Social Engagement Scale .
Result	Of 133,111 eligible residents , 90,538 had consistent continence status , 58,850 ( 65 % ) of whom were incontinent .
Result	UI was significantly associated with worse QoL in residents with moderate cognitive and functional impairment .
Result	New or worsening UI over 6 months was associated with worse QoL ( odds ratio = 1.46 , 95 % confidence interval = 1.36-1 .57 ) and was second only to cognitive decline and functional decline in predicting worse QoL .
Result	This is the first study to quantitatively demonstrate that prevalent and new or worsening UI decreases QoL even in frail , functionally and cognitively impaired nursing home residents .
Result	These results provide a crucial incentive to improve continence care and quality in nursing homes and a rationale for targeting interventions to those residents most likely to benefit .

Background	The utility of administering only the first deck of 64 cards from the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test ( WCST-64 ) in persons with Alzheimer 's ( AD ) and Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) was evaluated .
Method	There were 35 elderly subjects matched for gender , age , and education in each of four groups : controls , PD without dementia ( PDN ) , PD with dementia ( PDD ) , and AD .
Method	Additionally , the control and PDN subjects were matched for level of cognitive functioning as were the PDD and AD groups .
Result	Results revealed that demented persons performed significantly worse than nondemented subjects .
Result	The WCST-64 was also sensitive to the subtle executive deficits demonstrated by persons with PD without dementia .
Result	The findings support the use of the WCST-64 in elderly persons with AD and PD .

Background	In locally advanced colorectal cancer , combined modality treatment is a standard adjuvant therapy in USA and Europe .
Method	The basic issue of the timing of radiotherapy and chemotherapy and preoperative radio-chemotherapy versus postoperative radio-chemotherapy is being addressed in prospective trials .
Result	Preoperative radiotherapy proved that causes more radiosensitivity due to that oxygen tension within the tumour may be higher prior to surgery .
Result	Technically , there are two approaches of preoperative radiotherapy .
Result	The aim of this article is to report the inclusion criteria , indications , advantages and results of short course preoperative radiotherapy .

Background	The communication impairments that characterize severe dementia make pain assessment challenging .
Background	As such , pain problems often go undetected .
Background	Our goal was to determine whether systematic pain assessment leads to improved pain management practices and decreases nursing stress in comparison with a control condition .
Method	We adopted a 3-month comparative longitudinal design .
Method	Nursing staff regularly assessed dementia patients ' pain through the use of the Pain Assessment Checklist for Seniors with Limited Ability to Communicate ( PACSLAC ) .
Method	A second group of nurses completed an attention-control measure for a control group of patients .
Method	In addition , nursing staff regularly completed measures of work stress to investigate the effects of the workload associated with systematic pain assessment on nurse stress .
Result	Regular use of the PACSLAC improved pain management practices over time as reflected in increased usage of analgesic medications ( prescribed on as needed basis ) in comparison with the control group .
Result	As pain interventions increased , a corresponding decrease in observable pain behaviors ( as reflected on the PACSLAC assessments that were completed by the nurses ) was observed .
Result	In addition , nurses who used the PACSLAC reported decreased distress and burnout over time .
Result	This investigation provides strong support for both the importance of systematic pain assessment in long-term care and for the clinical utility of the PACSLAC in improving pain management practices and decreasing caregiver distress .

Background	Subclinical hypothyroidism is defined as an elevated serum thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) level with normal free thyroid hormones values .
Background	The prevalence of subclinical hypothyroidism is 4 % to 8 % in the general population , and up to 15 % to 18 % in women who are over 60 years of age .
Background	There is considerable controversy regarding the morbidity , the clinical significance of subclinical hypothyroidism and if these patients should be treated .
Method	To assess the effects of thyroid hormone replacement for subclinical hypothyroidism .
Method	We searched The Cochrane Library , MEDLINE , EMBASE and LILACS .
Method	Ongoing trials databases , reference lists and abstracts of congresses were scrutinized as well .
Method	All studies had to be randomised controlled trials comparing thyroid hormone replacement with placebo or no treatment in adults with subclinical hypothyroidism .
Method	Minimum duration of follow-up was one month .
Method	Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data .
Method	We contacted study authors for missing or additional information .
Method	Twelve trials of six to 14 months duration involving 350 people were included .
Result	Eleven trials investigated levothyroxine replacement with placebo , one study compared levothyroxine replacement with no treatment .
Method	We did not identify any trial that assessed ( cardiovascular ) mortality or morbidity .
Result	Seven studies evaluated symptoms , mood and quality of life with no statistically significant improvement .
Result	One study showed a statistically significant improvement in cognitive function .
Result	Six studies assessed serum lipids , there was a trend for reduction in some parameters following levothyroxine replacement .
Result	Some echocardiographic parameters improved after levothyroxine replacement therapy , like myocardial relaxation , as indicated by a significant prolongation of the isovolumic relaxation time as well as diastolic dysfunction .
Result	Only four studies reported adverse events with no statistically significant differences between groups .
Result	In current RCTs , levothyroxine replacement therapy for subclinical hypothyroidism did not result in improved survival or decreased cardiovascular morbidity .
Result	Data on health-related quality of life and symptoms did not demonstrate significant differences between intervention groups .
Result	Some evidence indicates that levothyroxine replacement improves some parameters of lipid profiles and left ventricular function .

Background	We sought to determine if patients with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) , taking dopamine agonists ( DAs ) and reporting unintended sleep episodes ( SEs ) , exhibit physiologically defined daytime sleepiness and can thus be differentiated from those taking DAs but not
Method	Twenty-four patients with abnormal Epworth Sleepiness Scale scores of > 10 who were taking DAs were enrolled into one of two groups : those with SEs ( SE + , n = 16 ) and those without ( SE - , n = 8 ) .
Method	Three consecutive days of testing included two nights of polysomnography followed by the Multiple Sleep Latency Test ( MSLT ) .
Result	Overall frequency of pathological sleepiness ( MSLT < 5 min ) was 42 % ( 10/24 ) .
Result	Mean levels of sleepiness , frequencies of pathological sleepiness , and naps with stage 2 or REM-sleep were similar between SE + and SE - groups .
Result	Sleep tendency was similar in patients prescribed pergolide , ropinirole , and pramipexole combined with levodopa .
Result	Polysomnography testing revealed no significant differences between the groups in total sleep time , sleep efficiency , sleep architecture , or presence of restless legs syndrome or periodic leg movements .
Result	There was no relation between degree of nocturnal sleep disturbance and level of daytime sleepiness .
Result	The results of this study suggest SEs in PD patients occur upon a background of excessive daytime sleepiness and are unrelated to nocturnal sleep or use of a specific DA .

Method	We examined the distribution of mRNA for the peptide cholecystokinin ( CCK ) with in situ hybridization in adult rat lumbar dorsal root ganglia following unilateral section of the sciatic nerve , as well as the effect of systemic CI 988 , a selective antagoni
Result	There was a dramatic increase in the number of neurons in dorsal root ganglia synthesizing the peptide cholecystokinin ( CCK ) after sciatic nerve section .
Result	Furthermore , the autotomy behavior of rats was significantly inhibited by chronic i.t. administration of morphine in conjunction with subcutaneous ( s.c. ) injection of CI 988 .
Result	Neither i.t. morphine nor s.c. CI 988 alone produced a comparable effect on autotomy .
Result	Our results suggested that up-regulation of the mRNA for CCK in primary afferents after nerve injury may be related to the clinical phenomenon of opioid insensitivity .
Result	Thus , coadministration of CCK antagonists in combination with opioids may offer a new approach in treating neuropathic pain .

Background	Injury in the home is extremely common , accounting for around a third of all injuries .
Background	The majority of injuries of children under five and people aged 75 and over occur at home .
Background	Multi-factorial injury prevention interventions have been shown to reduce injuries in the home .
Background	However , few studies have focussed specifically on the impact of physical adaptations to the home environment and the effectiveness of such intervention needs to be ascertained .
Method	To review the evidence for the effect on injuries of modification of the home environment with a primary focus on interventions to reduce physical hazards .
Method	We searched the following databases APId , ASSIA , British Nursing Index , CINAHL , Cochrane Library databases , Dissertation Abstracts , EMBASE , HealthSTAR , ICONDA , ISI Science ( and Social Science ) Citation Index , MEDLINE , National Research Register , PREMEDLINE , SIGLE and Urbadisk .
Method	Conference proceedings and reference lists were scanned .
Method	Experts in the field and trialists were contacted .
Method	Searches were not restricted to English language .
Method	Handsearching of relevant journals was not conducted .
Method	Randomised controlled trials , non-randomised controlled trials , controlled before-and-after studies and interrupted time series studies .
Method	All abstracts were screened by two reviewers for relevance , outcome and design .
Method	Two reviewers independently evaluated methodological quality and extracted data from each eligible study .
Method	We found 28 published trials and one unpublished study .
Result	Trials were not sufficiently similar to allow for the combination of data by statistical analyses , so this review takes a narrative form .
Result	Studies were divided into three groups based on the primary population sample : children , older people and the general population .
Result	None of the 11 childhood studies demonstrated a reduction in injuries that might have been due to environmental adaptation in the home .
Result	One study reported a reduction in injuries and in hazards but the two could not be linked .
Result	The majority of studies used hazard reduction as the outcome .
Result	Of the 15 studies in older people , none demonstrated a reduction in injuries due to hazard reduction , although two demonstrated a reduction in falls that could be due to hazard reduction .
Result	In the mixed age group there were two trials ; neither demonstrated an effect on injuries .
Result	There is insufficient evidence to determine the effects of interventions to modify environmental home hazards .
Result	Further interventions to reduce hazards in the home should be evaluated by adequately designed randomised controlled trials measuring injury outcomes .
Result	Recruitment of large study samples to measure effect may be a major consideration for future trials .

Background	Brachial plexus injuries ( BPIs ) are often devastating events that lead to upper-extremity paralysis , rendering the limb a painful extraneous appendage .
Background	Fortunately , there are several nerve repair techniques that provide restoration of some function .
Background	Although there is general agreement in the medical community concerning which patients may benefit from surgical intervention , the actual repair technique for a given lesion is less clear .
Method	The authors sought to identify and better define areas of agreement and disagreement among experienced peripheral nerve surgeons as to the management of BPIs .
Method	The authors developed a detailed survey in two parts one part addressing general issues related to BPI and the other presenting four clinical cases .
Method	The survey was mailed to 126 experienced peripheral nerve physicians and 49 ( 39 % ) participated in the study .
Method	The respondents represent 22 different countries and multiple surgical subspecialties .
Method	They performed a mean of 33 brachial plexus reconstructions annually .
Method	Areas of significant disagreement included the timing and indications for surgical intervention in birth-related palsy , treatment of neuroma-in-continuity , the best transfers to achieve elbow flexion and shoulder abduction , the use of intra - or extraplexal donors for motor neurotization , and the use of distal or proximal coaptation during nerve transfer .
Result	Experienced peripheral nerve surgeons disagree in important ways as to the management of BPI .
Result	The decisions made by the various treating physicians underscore the many areas of disagreement regarding the treatment of BPI , including the diagnostic approach to defining the injury , timing of and indications for surgical intervention in birth-related

Background	To what extent does the scientific literature have an impact on current clinical practice guidelines ( CPGs ) in trauma surgery ?
Method	We searched for CPGs on the initial management of multiply injured patients and assessed the quality of literature search and appraisal within these CPGs .
Method	Secondly , we compiled a list of all medical journal with relevance to prehospital trauma care .
Method	Lastly , we performed a hand search for randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) in some of the German not in Medline indexed traumatological journals .
Result	We identified 22 CPGs of varying methodological quality .
Result	The American guidelines scored highest .
Result	Only 21 of the 38 journals ( 55 % ) in the field of prehospital trauma surgery were indexed in Medline , while 6 were covered only by Embase and 11 were indexed in neither of both databases .
Result	Hand searching four non-indexed German journals identified nearly 200 RCTs .
Result	Information flow between clinical research and CPG development remains difficult .
Result	Thoroughly performed literature searches have an important role in CPG development .

Background	In ventricular myocardium , the T-type Ca2 + current ( ICa , T ) , which is temporarily observed during fetal and neonatal periods , has been shown to reappear in failing/remodeling hearts .
Background	However , its pathophysiological regulation has not been elucidated .
Method	We utilized Dahl salt-sensitive ( DS ) rats with hypertension at the stage of concentric left ventricular ( LV ) hypertrophy ( 11 weeks old , LVH ) and at the heart failure stage ( 16 to 18 weeks old , CHF ) .
Method	Some were treated with bosentan ( 100 mg/kg per day ) during the period from LVH to CHF .
Result	In LVH , neither the presence of ICa , T ( measured in the freshly isolated LV myocytes ) nor an increase in alpha-1G mRNA expression were detected .
Result	This condition was associated with increases in tissue angiotensin II ( AII ) but not with endothelin ( ET ) -1 peptides .
Result	In contrast , in CHF , when the tissue AII remained elevated and ET-1 de novo increased , ICa , T was recorded in most of the cells ( -0.87 + / -0.18 pA/pF at -30 mV , P < 0.01 versus LVH ) .
Result	This was associated with a significant increase in the alpha-1G mRNA level .
Result	The chronic bosentan treatment eliminated both the elevation of alpha-1G mRNA level and ICa , T from the cells , whereas it did not affect the cell size and membrane capacitance .
Result	In addition , 48-hour exposure to ET-1 but not AII induced ICa , T in normal adult myocytes in culture from Sprague-Dawley rats .
Result	ICa , T channels reappear in failing but not in hypertrophied LV cardiomyocytes in a manner depending on the tissue ET-1 activation .

Background	The prevalence and profile of adults with a history of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) has not been studied in large North American forensic mental health populations .
Background	This study investigated how adults with a documented history of TBI differed with the non-TBI forensic population with respect to demographics , psychiatric diagnoses and history of offences .
Method	A retrospective chart review of all consecutive admissions to a forensic psychiatry programme in Toronto , Canada was conducted .
Method	Information on history of TBI , psychiatric diagnoses , living environments and types of criminal offences were obtained from medical records .
Result	History of TBI was ascertained in 23 % of 394 eligible patient records .
Result	Compared to those without a documented history of TBI , persons with this history were less likely to be diagnosed with schizophrenia but more likely to have alcohol/substance abuse disorder .
Result	There were also differences observed with respect to offence profiles .
Result	This study provides evidence to support routine screening for a history of TBI in forensic psychiatry .

Background	Some prolonged and turbulent grief reactions include symptoms that differ from the DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder .
Background	The authors investigated a new diagnosis that would include these symptoms .
Method	They developed observer-based definitions of 30 symptoms noted clinically in previous longitudinal interviews of bereaved persons and then designed a plan to investigate whether any combination of these would serve as criteria for a possible new diagnosis of complicated grief disorder .
Method	Using a structured diagnostic interview , they assessed 70 subjects whose spouses had died .
Method	Latent class model analyses and signal detection procedures were used to calibrate the data against global clinical ratings and self-report measures of grief-specific distress .
Result	Complicated grief disorder was found to be characterized by a smaller set of the assessed symptoms .
Result	Subjects elected by an algorithm for these symptoms patterns did not significantly overlap with subjects who received a diagnosis of major depressive disorder .
Result	A new diagnosis of complicated grief disorder may be indicated .
Result	Its criteria would include the current experience ( more than a year after a loss ) of intense intrusive thoughts , pangs of severe emotion , distressing yearnings , feeling excessively alone and empty , excessively avoiding tasks reminiscent of the deceased , u

Method	To elucidate mechanisms of melanocortin action , we investigated the effects of a melanocortin receptor agonist ( melanotetan II [ MTII ] ) in lean C57BL/6J and obese ( DIO , ob/ob , UCP1-DTA ) mice .
Result	MTII administration ( 100 microg q.i.d. i.p. ) for 24 h results in similar weight loss but a more pronounced decrease of food intake in DIO mice .
Result	After 4 and 8 days of MTII treatment , however , the reduction in both food intake and body weight is more pronounced in DIO mice than in lean mice .
Result	MTII administration for 24 h prevents food deprivation-induced alterations in hypothalamic neuropeptide Y ( NPY ) and liver adiponectin receptor 1 and adiponectin receptor 2 mRNA expression , but does not alter hypothalamic mRNA expression of melanocortin 4
Result	NPY and agouti gene-related protein ( AgRP ) mRNA expression after 8 days of MTII is increased to levels comparable to pair-fed mice .
Result	In summary , 1 ) MTII is an effective treatment for obesity and related metabolic defects in leptin-resistant ( DIO , UCP1-DTA ) and leptin-sensitive ( ob/ob ) mouse models of obesity ; 2 ) the effects of MTII on food intake and body weight are more pronounced in

Background	Progress in the care of people with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) spans every aspect , from research in neuroregeneration to pharmacologic interventions .
Method	This article focuses on advances in rehabilitation interventions , which have employed bioengineering , computerization , and advanced therapeutic techniques .
Background	These interventions are being applied to functional deficits of the bladder , bowel , upper extremities , and respiratory system , as well as to improvements in ambulation and mobility .
Background	Functional electrical stimulation ( FES ) is being used to augment the function of the lower extremities , the upper extremities ( Freehand System ) , and the bowel and bladder ( Vocare System ) .
Background	Tendon transfer is a reconstructive technique used to improve upper extremity function ; it is sometimes combined with FES .
Background	Body weight-supported treadmill training is being used to improve ambulation in people with incomplete SCI , and advances in wheelchair technology are expanding options for mobility .
Background	Cushion design and pressure mapping are modalities being used to reduce the high risk for pressure ulcers in the SCI population .
Background	Research on shoulder stressors is being applied to transfer techniques , exercise regimens , adaptive equipment and wheelchair mechanics to minimize shoulder pain , another common complication .
Result	The effectiveness of rehabilitation interventions needs to be documented by evidence-based research .
Result	Researchers are focusing on the identification of outcomes measures that will form the basis for established standards of care for individuals with SCI .
Result	Perhaps the combination of conventional and newer therapies may enhance neurological recovery .
Result	Well-designed studies are needed before we can make this determination .

Background	Low bone mass , functional impairment , low muscle strength , and postural instability are predictors of the risk of fracture in an elderly person .
Background	The purpose of this study was to investigate the functional impact of an unvarying long-term exercise program to be carried out at home .
Background	The exercises had been shown to delay bone loss in an elderly population .
Method	At the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation , University of Vienna , postmenopausal women who had been stratified into exercise or control groups 5 to 10 yr ago were called in for a follow-up examination .
Method	Frequency of training , habits , and pain causing disability in activities of daily living were recorded .
Method	Walking velocity , muscle strength , and postural stability were measured .
Method	Functional assessment , blood analysis , and x-rays of the spine were performed additionally .
Method	One hundred twenty-four women aged 68.3 + / - 6.8 yr ( mean + / - SD ) underwent a follow-up investigation at the outpatient clinic .
Result	After 7.7 + / - 1.1 yr the compliance of the training group was still 36 % .
Result	Self-chosen gait velocity was slightly higher in the regular exercisers than in the controls .
Result	No intergroup differences were found for pain induced disability , muscle strength , body sway , and fracture rate .
Result	The pain disability index was significantly associated with corrected self-chosen gait velocity .
Result	The results suggest that an unvarying home-based exercise program may support general agility but does not yield enough force to improve muscle strength and postural stability in healthy , nondisabled , postmenopausal women who start exercising at the age o
Result	Further studies are needed to define more appropriate exercise programs for a comprehensive improvement of functional outcome in a population at high risk for osteoporosis .

Method	A prospective study was developed to quantify acute low back pain recovery .
Method	To compare traditional self-report measures of low back pain recovery with a quantitative measure of recovery .
Background	The magnitude of low back disorders in society continues to be a problem .
Background	To prevent secondary injuries , an understanding of recovery must be gained by comparing the natural course of recovery using several outcome measures .
Method	For this study , 16 occupational and 16 nonoccupational patients with low back pain were recruited .
Method	Recovery was monitored prospectively every 2 weeks for 3 to 6 months , using subjective work status , pain symptoms , activities of daily living , and objective functional performance probability ( trunk kinematics ) .
Result	Return to work underestimated the percentage of subjects impaired , as compared with all other outcome measures .
Result	Symptoms , activities of daily living , and functional performance probability all showed similar patterns of recovery for 0 to 12 weeks .
Result	At 14 weeks , there was a lag in functional performance recovery .
Result	Both symptoms and activities of daily living indicated that 80 % of the population was recovered , whereas functional performance indicated the figure to be 68 % .
Result	This prospective study demonstrates the natural course of recovery using several outcome measures .
Result	The objective kinematic functional performance measure of recovery quantifies a different aspect of impairment not evaluated by traditional subjective measures .
Result	Use of several outcome measures may lead to a better understanding of low back pain recovery or residual impairment , which may minimize the risk of recurrent injury .

Background	Acute low back pain with or without sciatica usually is self-limited and has no serious underlying pathology .
Background	For most patients , reassurance , pain medications , and advice to stay active are sufficient .
Background	A more thorough evaluation is required in selected patients with `` red flag '' findings associated with an increased risk of cauda equina syndrome , cancer , infection , or fracture .
Method	These patients also require closer follow-up and , in some cases , urgent referral to a surgeon .
Method	In patients with nonspecific mechanical low back pain , imaging can be delayed for at least four to six weeks , which usually allows the pain to improve .
Result	There is good evidence for the effectiveness of acetaminophen , nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs , skeletal muscle relaxants , heat therapy , physical therapy , and advice to stay active .
Result	Spinal manipulative therapy may provide short-term benefits compared with sham therapy but not when compared with conventional treatments .
Result	Evidence for the benefit of acupuncture is conflicting , with higher-quality trials showing no benefit .
Result	Patient education should focus on the natural history of the back pain , its overall good prognosis , and recommendations for effective treatments .

Background	The Secretary of Health and Human Services denies Medicare reimbursement for certain indirect costs associated with health care delivery .
Background	This Note reviews arguments supporting and opposing reimbursement of costs that providers incur in three common financial transactions : the use of equity capital , acquisition of providers , and loan financing .
Background	The Note considers the Secretary 's regulations in light of the congressional mandate to encourage efficient delivery of health care and concludes that current reimbursement policy promotes inefficiency .

Method	Twenty-four tenorrhaphies were performed at the mid-metatarsal region in 12 crossbred calves under xylazine-ketamine spinal analgesia .
Method	A 2.5-cm long gap was created in the superficial digital flexor ( SDF ) tendon and immediately repaired with carbon fibres in the animals of group I and with plasma-preserved tendon allografts in group II .
Result	Clinical examination revealed a slight increase ( P > 0.05 ) in rectal temperature , heart and respiratory rate for 2-4 days postoperation in both groups .
Result	Milder pain and exudation as well as earlier restoration of tendon gliding movements and weight bearing were observed in group I as compared to group II .
Result	Air-tendogram in the carbon fibre group on day 30 revealed restoration of continuity across the defect of the tendon .
Result	whereas , in the allograft group , a dense homogeneous swelling was seen along the flexors .
Result	Regression of peritendinous adhesions and swelling at the reconstructed site at later stages was seen in both groups .
Result	Angiography showed hypervascularization at the reconstructed site on day 14 in the carbon fibre group , however , in the allograft group the site appeared to be relatively avascular .
Result	On days 30 and 90 , blood vessels were normally organized in both groups .

Background	To investigate efficacy of three single dose radiation therapy ( RT ) regimens in the treatment of painful bone metastasis .
Method	Patient self-assessment by using pain chart enabled evaluation of response to treatment that consisted of either one of the three single fractions of 4 Gy ( group I ; n = 109 ) , 6 Gy ( group II ; n = 108 ) , or 8 Gy ( group III ; n = 110 ) .
Result	Patients in groups II and III had higher complete response rate than those in group I , but not significantly , and with no difference between group II and III .
Result	However , both patients in group II ( 73 % ) and group III ( 78 % ) had significantly higher overall response rates when compared to those observed in group I ( 59 % ) ( I vs II , p = 0.025 ; I vs III , p = 0.0019 ) , and with no difference between groups II and III ( p = 0.39 )
Result	Patients in group III had shortest time to the occurrence of any pain relief which was significantly better than those observed in group I ( Welch 's t-test , p = 0.012 ) , with no difference between group I and II and group II and III , respectively .
Result	There was no difference between the three treatment groups in duration of response and retreatment rate .
Result	No effect of histology or metastatic site treated was found .
Result	No pathological fractures or spinal cord compressions were observed during the 8 weeks post-RT .
Result	Results of this study seem to confirm that 8 Gy could be considered as probably `` lowest '' optimal single fraction RT in the treatment of painful bone metastasis , although single fraction RT of 4 Gy should not be easily discarded due to its applic
Result	Since single fraction RT of 6 Gy achieved results not different from that obtained with 8 Gy , further studies are warranted in order to get more informations about `` lowest '' optimal single fraction RT in the treatment of painful bone metastasis .

Background	There are few published studies assessing the efficacy of pharmacologic treatments for attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) among substance abusers seeking treatment .
Method	Eleven patients who met DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for cocaine dependence and adult ADHD were entered into a 12-week single-blind trial of divided daily doses of bupropion ( BPR ) .
Method	All patients received weekly individual standardized relapse prevention therapy .
Result	Treatment compliance and retention were good .
Result	Patients reported significant reductions in attention difficulties , hyperactivity and impulsivity .
Result	Self-reported cocaine use , cocaine craving , and cocaine positive toxicologies , also decreased significantly .
Result	In a previously published trial , 12 patients who met similar diagnostic criteria for adult ADHD and cocaine dependence were entered into a 12-week trial of divided daily doses of sustained-release methylphenidate ( MPH ) .
Result	Improvements observed on BPR were similar to , and did not differ from those previously observed with MPH .
Result	These preliminary data suggest that BPR may be as effective as sustained-release MPH , when combined with relapse prevention therapy , for cocaine abusers with adult ADHD .
Result	However , a future study directly comparing BPR to MPH in a double-blind placebo-controlled trial is needed .

Background	Economic restructuring in the health services industry in the USA exemplifies general patterns of economic change propelled by neoliberalism , especially industry privatization , diminished social services , and dependence on `` flexible '' labor and m
Background	Combined with the widespread entry of women into the labor force , an aging population , and minimal assistance for high quality long-term care at the end of life , these economic and social conditions raise a set of difficult policy questions for health ser
Background	Set in these broad contexts , this paper situates access to and experience of health services in the home , the hospital , and nursing facility , to demonstrate how economic changes have relocated and redefined health services in ways that distinctively impac
Background	This place switching of health services externalizes costs of subacute and `` daily life care '' ( the so-called custodial care ) to the sphere of the individual , their family , and communities .
Background	The theoretical analysis uses current geographical and philosophical approaches to place and space , and considers the tensions between institutionally managed health care space , and the patient 's experience of receiving health services in place .
Background	The place/space dilemma of health services provision is examined through several interrelated subjects : long-term care at the end of life , gendered characteristics of care giving , the limitations of Medicare and Medicaid , historical changes in hospital le
Background	The analysis is based on examples of stroke and incontinence care to demonstrate the importance of considering place and space issues in health care planning .

Background	Despite anecdotal reports that serotonin reuptake inhibitors may improve depersonalisation , there is no proven efficacious treatment for depersonalisation disorder .
Method	To investigate the efficacy of fluoxetine in the treatment of depersonalisation disorder .
Method	Fifty-four people who met DSM-IV criteria for depersonalisation disorder were recruited through newspaper advertisements , and 50 were randomised to a 10-week , double-blind trial of fluoxetine 10-60 mg/day or placebo .
Method	Primary outcome measures were the Dissociative Experiences Scale-Depersonalisation Factor , the Depersonalization Severity Scale and the Clinical Global Impression-Improvement ( CGI-I ) scale .
Result	Intention-to-treat analysis revealed that fluoxetine ( mean dosage 48 mg/day ) was not superior to placebo except for a clinically minimal but statistically significantly greater improvement in CGI-I score in the fluoxetine group prior to covarying for anxi
Result	Depersonalisation was significantly more likely to improve if comorbid anxiety disorder improved .
Result	Fluoxetine was not efficacious in treating depersonalisation disorder , despite the commonly reported clinical use of serotonin reuptake inhibitors for this condition .

Background	Vertebral fractures are the most common osteoporotic fracture and may result in back pain with functional limitations and diminished quality of life .
Background	Teriparatide [ rhPTH ( 1-34 ) ] has been shown to increase bone mass and reduce the risk of vertebral and other osteoporotic fractures .
Method	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of teriparatide on the risk of back pain in patients with osteoporosis .
Method	A systematic review of the literature was performed , and five trials were identified and included in our analyses .
Method	All trials were randomized , double-blinded , and parallel with either new vertebral fracture ( n = 1 ) or bone mineral density as the primary endpoint ( n = 4 ) .
Method	Four studies were in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis , and one was in men with idiopathic or hypogonadal osteoporosis .
Method	Two trials were placebo controlled , two trials were alendronate controlled , and one trial involved teriparatide plus hormone replacement therapy versus hormone replacement therapy alone .
Method	Reports of back pain , defined as new or worsened back pain after initiating the study drug , were obtained from adverse event databases , and the risk of back pain was analyzed using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model .
Result	Results were not statistically heterogeneous ( P = 0.60 ) across trials , and there were no differences between groups administered teriparatide 20 or 40 mcg/day doses ( P = 0.64 ) .
Result	The rates of back pain , moderate or severe back pain , and severe back pain per 100 patient-years were numerically lower in the teriparatide versus comparator groups in each study .
Result	Compared with the pooled comparator , patients in the pooled teriparatide group had reduced risk for any back pain [ relative risk , 0.66 ( 95 % CI , 0.55-0 .80 ) ] , moderate or severe back pain [ relative risk , 0.60 ( 95 % CI , 0.48-0 .75 ) ] and severe back pain [ relat
Result	Separate meta-analyses comparing teriparatide versus placebo or antiresorptive drugs gave similar results .
Result	In conclusion , patients randomized to teriparatide had a reduced risk of new or worsening back pain compared to patients randomized to placebo , hormone replacement therapy or alendronate .

Background	To adapt and validate the Spanish language version of the Diabetes 39 instrument , which measures quality of life , for Mexican patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( DM-2 ) .
Method	The Spanish language version of the instrument was adapted to make it more comprehensible to Mexican patients .
Method	In a cross-sectional survey , the instrument was administered on two different days to 260 patients with type DM-2 .
Method	Glycated hemoglobin ( HbAic ) , total cholesterol , triglycerides , blood pressure , body mass index and waist/hip ratio were measured .
Method	Information about age , sex , time since diagnosis of diabetes , diabetes related complications and comorbidity was obtained .
Result	A total of 249 subjects completed the study , 62.7 % of which were women .
Result	Cronbach 's alpha coefficient was > or = 0.80 for the domains and 0.95 for the total score.The test-retest consistency for the total score was r = 0.82 , p = 0.01 .
Result	The median of the total score was 29 ( on a scale of 0-100 ) , which was considered the cutoff value for defining `` better '' ( < 29 ) and `` worse '' > or = 29 ) quality of life.A worse quality of life was associated with diabetes related complic
Result	The last three were identified as predictor variables for worse quality of life by logistic regression ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	The adapted Spanish language version of Diabetes 39 is a reliable and valid instrument for measuring the quality of life of Mexican patients with DM-2 .

Background	The objective of this study was to demonstrate 1H MR spectroscopy ( MRS ) changes in cerebral metabolites after acute head trauma .
Method	Twenty-five patients ( 12 children , 13 adults ) were examined with quantitative 1H MRS after closed head injury .
Result	Clinical grade ( Glasgow Coma Scale [ GCS ] ) and outcome ( Rancho Los Amigos Medical Center Outcome Score [ ROS ] ) were correlated with quantitative neurochemical findings .
Result	N-acetylaspartate ( NAA ) , a neuronal and axonal marker , was reduced ( P < .03 -.001 ) .
Result	In children , a reduced NAA/creatine plus phosphocreatine ( Cr ) level and the presence of detectable lipid/lactate predicted bad outcome ( sensitivity , 89 % ; specificity , 89 % ) .
Result	The first MRS examination of all patients correlated with ROS versus NAA ( r = .65 , P < .0001 ) .
Result	Although most patients showed MRS abnormalities , striking heterogeneity of 1H MRS characterized the individual patients .
Result	1H MRS identifies multiple patterns of diffuse brain injury after blunt head trauma .
Result	There was a strong correlation between MRS and outcome .
Result	Future prospective studies will be needed to determine the clinical usefulness of MRS in predicting outcome from closed head injury .

Background	Generalized anxiety disorder ( GAD ) is a prevalent and disabling disorder characterized by persistent worrying , anxiety symptoms , and tension .
Background	It is the most frequent anxiety disorder in primary care , being present in 22 % of primary care patients who complain of anxiety problems .
Background	The high prevalence rate of GAD in primary care ( 8 % ) compared to that reported in the general population ( 12-month prevalence 1.9-5 .1 % ) suggests that GAD patients are high users of primary care resources .
Background	GAD affects women more frequently than men and prevalence rates are high in midlife ( prevalence in females over age 35 : 10 % ) and older subjects but relatively low in adolescents .
Background	The natural course of GAD can be characterized as chronic with few complete remissions , a waxing and waning course of GAD symptoms , and the occurrence of substantial comorbidity particularly with depression .
Background	Patients with GAD demonstrate a considerable degree of impairment and disability , even in its pure form , uncomplicated by depression or other mental disorders .
Background	The degree of impairment is similar to that of cases with major depression .
Background	GAD comorbid with depression usually reveals considerably higher numbers of disability days in the past month than either condition in its pure form .
Result	As a result , GAD is associated with a significant economic burden owing to decreased work productivity and increased use of health care services , particularly primary health care .
Result	The appropriate use of psychological treatments and antidepressants may improve both anxiety and depression symptoms and may also play a role in preventing comorbid major depression in GAD thus reducing the burden on both the individual and society .

Background	We studied the perceptions of general practitioners ( GPs ) towards teledermatology , before and after its introduction into eight general practices for the purposes of a randomized controlled trial .
Method	A postal questionnaire was distributed before the trial and again one year later .
Method	Thirty-six of the 42 GPs responded on each occasion ( a response rate of 86 % ) .
Result	In the second survey , only 21 % of respondents indicated that they were satisfied with teledermatology in their practice , while 47 % said that they were dissatisfied .
Result	Thirty-one per cent said that they felt confident about diagnosis and management of care through teledermatology , and 28 % reported that they were unconfident .
Result	Only 23 % of respondents said that they would consider using a telemedicine system in the future , while 34 % said they would not ( 43 % were unsure ) .
Result	There were no significant findings to suggest that the GPs ' perceptions changed over time .
Result	Less favourable responses to telemedicine were found than has been observed in previous studies , which suggests that the model of telemedicine described in this study would not be widely acceptable to GPs .

Background	Traumatic sacral fractures are most often due to motor vehicle or industrial accidents and are commonly associated with pelvic , urogenital , and neurological injuries .
Background	In recent years , a more subtle type of sacral fracture , not associated with major trauma , has been described .
Background	It is an osteoporotic insufficiency fracture that presents as low back pain in elderly patients , especially postmenopausal Caucasian women .
Background	It may escape detection unless radionuclide bone scans , tomograms , or computed tomograms are obtained .
Background	The radiographic features have been detailed in various publications , but little has been reported about the clinical features , treatment , or ultimate outcome of patients with osteoporotic sacral fractures .
Method	We have reviewed the charts and radiological studies of 13 women and 3 men who sustained this type of fracture between 1983 and 1986 .
Method	All of these patients were Caucasian .
Method	The average age was 71 years .
Background	The most common presenting symptom complex was diffuse low back pain accompanied by hip , buttock , or thigh pain .
Result	Pertinent physical findings were limited to tenderness on palpation of the sacrum and a decreased range of low back motion .
Result	The osteoporotic fractures were seldom noted on plain roentgenograms of the sacrum , but were readily defined by sacral tomography or computed tomography .
Result	Radionuclide bone scanning also proved helpful in making the diagnosis by localizing the process .
Result	Treatment was medical and consisted of therapies designed to reduce pain and to combat the associated osteopenia .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	Sjögren-Larsson syndrome ( SLS ) is characterized by congenital ichthyosis , mental retardation and spastic di - or tetraplegia .
Background	All patients older than one year have glistening dots in the fundus of the eye .
Background	SLS has autosomal recessive inheritance .
Method	All 35 SLS patients in Sweden , alive in 1978 , were examined physically and neurologically by the authors .
Result	Prematurity was common but did not have any prognostic importance .
Result	Thirty-two patients had non-progressive pronounced or severe spastic diplegia , and two had severe tetraplegia .
Result	Those who were most motor-handicapped were also most mentally retarded .
Result	However , the degree of ichthyosis and the changes in the ocular fundus varied independently of the cerebral symptoms .
Result	There were no morphological abnormalities of the brain found in cranial computed tomography .
Result	Shortness of stature was due to poor development of paretic legs and contractures in joints and the spine due to spasticity .
Result	SLS should be suspected in a child with congenital ichthyosis .
Result	The diagnosis is confirmed when signs of spasticity and mental retardation are present before the age of three years .

Background	Osteoporosis is a progressive skeletal disease , which in many cases remains silent and asymptomatic until a fracture occurs .
Background	Vertebral fractures are the earliest and most common osteoporotic fractures .
Background	The prevalence of vertebral fractures increases steadily with age , ranging between 20 % for 50-year-old postmenopausal women to 64.5 % for older women .
Background	The majority of vertebral fractures are not connected with severe trauma , and only one in three is diagnosed clinically .
Background	Usually vertebral fractures are associated with such clinical symptoms as back pain , posture change , loss of height , functional impairment , disability , and diminished quality of live .
Background	Women with the most severe vertebral fractures are the most likely to incur further fractures , with as much as 3.4 times the risk of hip fracture , and 12.6 times the risk of new vertebral fractures .
Background	Almost 20 % of women will experience another fracture within 1 year after a vertebral fracture .
Background	Vertebral fractures are accompanied by increased mortality .
Background	The relative risk of death following vertebral fracture is almost 9 times higher .
Background	The most important purpose of osteoporosis management in postmenopausal women is prevention of the first vertebral fracture .
Background	Raloxifene ( Evista ) is the only SERM approved by the American FDA for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis .
Background	It is the first compound with selective estrogen agonist activity in bone and in the cardiovascular system , but with estrogen antagonist activity or no activity in reproductive tissues and breast .
Result	Raloxifene reduces the risk of positive estrogen receptor breast cancer , decreases total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol , increases HDL cholesterol , does not increase the risk of endometrial cancer or cause bleeding and spotting .
Result	After 3 years of treatment Raloxifene reduces the risk of first vertebral fracture by 55 % .
Result	The fracture risk within one year is reduced by as much as 68 % .
Result	Continued observation has proved its sustained efficacy in the further reduction of fracture risk by 49 % in the fourth year .
Result	Raloxifene treatment does not change the physiological structure of bone quality and does not cause fibrosis , osteomalacia or other toxic effects .

Background	We previously demonstrated that fenofibrate , a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ( PPARalpha ) agonist , reduced the neurological deficit , the edema and the cerebral lesion induced by traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Method	In order to elucidate these beneficial effects , in the present study , we investigated , in the same TBI model , fenofibrate 's effects on the inflammation and oxidative stress .
Method	Male Sprague Dawley rats were randomized in four groups : non-operated , sham-operated , TBI + vehicle , TBI + fenofibrate .
Method	TBI was induced by lateral fluid percussion of the temporoparietal cortex .
Method	Rats were given fenofibrate ( 50 mg/kg ) or its vehicle ( water containing 0.2 % methylcellulose ) , p.o. 1 and 6 h after brain injury .
Method	A neurological assessment was done 24 h after TBI , then rats were killed and the brain COX2 , MMP9 expression , GSx , GSSG levels were determined .
Method	The same schedule of treatment was used to evaluate the effect of fenofibrate on immunohistochemistry of 3NT , 4HNE and iNOS at 24 h post-injury .
Result	Our results showed that fenofibrate promotes neurological recovery by exerting anti-inflammatory effect evidenced by a decrease in iNOS , COX2 and MMP9 expression .
Result	In addition , fenofibrate showed anti-oxidant effect demonstrated by a reduction of markers of oxidative stress : loss of glutathione , glutathione oxidation ratio , 3NT and 4HNE staining .
Result	Our data suggest that PPARalpha activation could mediate pleiotropic effects and strengthen that it could be a promising therapeutic strategy for TBI .

Background	Background : Immigrant Muslim women have low rates of health care utilization , especially preventive care such as breast exams , mammograms , and cervical cancer screening .
Background	Religious and cultural beliefs , such as the value placed on modesty and premarital virginity , contribute to reluctance to seek health care .
Background	In addition , it has been unclear whether discussions of health care behavior that involve sexuality and reproductive health would be welcomed among immigrant Muslim women .
Method	Purposes ( 1 ) To examine the impact of religious and cultural values on health care behavior of Muslim women from immigrant backgrounds in the San Francisco Bay Area , particularly with regard to cervical cancer screening ; ( 2 ) To determine whether these women would welcome discussing values and beliefs regarding sexuality and reproductive health .
Method	Methods
Method	Our key informants were five Muslim women who identified pelvic and Pap smear screening exams as major sources of anxiety for their community , and therefore major barriers to health care .
Method	Three focus groups were then convened , including 15 women ages 18-25 , to discuss these issues in more detail .
Method	Results
Result	Many Muslim women from immigrant backgrounds face challenges in obtaining adequate health care due to some common barriers of language , transportation , insurance , and family pressures .
Result	Additionally , many Muslim women resist screening practices that are the standard in the US but which threaten their cultural and religious values .
Result	Equally important , many health care professionals contribute to the women 's challenges by making inappropriate recommendations regarding physical exams and reproductive health .

Background	Adiponectin is a protein hormone produced exclusively by adipocytes .
Background	Its circulating levels are decreased in individuals with obesity , atherosclerosis and insulin resistance , suggesting that its deficiency may have a causal role in the etiopathogenesis of these diseases .
Method	Studies have shown that adiponectin administration in rodents has insulin-sensitizing , anti-atherogenic and anti-inflammatory effects and under certain settings also decreases body weight .
Result	Therefore , adiponectin replacement in humans may represent a promising approach to prevent and/or treat obesity , insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes ; however , clinical studies with adiponectin administration need to be conducted to confirm this hypothe
Result	Current experimental and clinical data regarding adiponectin physiology and pathophysiology are detailed in this review .

Background	A study was conducted to determine the feasibility of quantifying spasticity in plantarflexors by measuring the resistance to passive dorsiflexion of the ankle joint at several constant angular speeds .
Method	Repeated testing was conducted on normal subjects and spastic patients .
Result	Good repeatability was found for both groups and both groups were found to differ significantly from each other with respect to the measurement variable .
Result	The method will provide a useful tool for quantifying alterations in plantarflexor spasticity which result from various surgical and non-surgical treatments .

Method	The case of a 36-year-old man who sought treatment of right facial myokymia and spastic paretic facial contracture is reported .
Background	Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a tumor located in the right cerebellar peduncle and the right dorsal pons bulging into the fourth ventricle .
Result	After microsurgical partial resection of the mass , which was verified histologically as an anaplastic glioma , facial myokymia initially ceased .
Result	The vermicular rippling movements were less intense upon recurrence and could be controlled by low-dose dexamethasone in the further course , when magnetic resonance imaging showed an interstitial pontine edema after percutaneous radiation therapy .
Result	It is assumed that facial myokymia and spastic paretic facial contracture were generated by ectopic activity due to alterations in the microenvironment at the intrapontine portion of the axons of the seventh nerve caused by the compressive effect of the t

Background	Cytokines and chemokines like the proinflammatory chemokine , monocytechemoattractant protein 1 ( MCP-1 ) are important for the recruitment of inflammatory cells into multiple sclerosis ( MS ) lesions .
Background	Recently , a nucleotide substitution from adenosine to guanosine ( A -- > G ) at position -2518 of the MCP-1 promoter was shown to be associated with increased MCP-1 expression .
Method	We analysed MCP-1 genotypes in 634 MS patients and 405 healthy controls .
Result	The allelic frequencies were comparable between both groups .
Result	No correlation was found between genotype and disease course , disease severity or age of disease onset .
Result	Although statistically no + significant mRNA expression and MCP-1 secretion were elevated in patients carrying the mutant allele .
Result	Thus , our data could not reveal any association between the MCP-1 -2518 polymorphism and susceptibility to or clinical disease course of MS.

Background	Electrical intracerebral stimulation ( also referred to as deep brain stimulation [ DBS ] ) is a tool for the treatment of chronic pain states that do not respond to less invasive or conservative treatment options .
Background	Careful patient selection , accurate target localization , and identification with intraoperative neurophysiological techniques and blinded test evaluation are the key requirements for success and good long-term results .
Method	The authors present their experience with DBS for the treatment of various chronic pain syndromes .
Method	In this study 56 patients with different forms of neuropathic and mixed nociceptive/neuropathic pain syndromes were treated with DBS according to a rigorous protocol .
Method	The postoperative follow-up duration ranged from 1 to 8 years , with a mean of 3.5 years .
Method	Electrodes were implanted in the somatosensory thalamus and the periventricular gray region .
Method	Before implantation of the stimulation device , a double-blinded evaluation was carefully performed to test the effect of each electrode on its own as well as combined stimulation with different parameter settings .
Method	The best long-term results were attained in patients with chronic low-back and leg pain , for example , in so-called failed-back surgery syndrome .
Result	Patients with neuropathic pain of peripheral origin ( such as complex regional pain syndrome Type II ) also responded well to DBS .
Result	Disappointing results were documented in patients with central pain syndromes , such as pain due to spinal cord injury and poststroke pain .
Result	Possible reasons for the therapeutic failures are discussed ; these include central reorganization and neuroplastic changes of the pain-transmitting pathways and pain modulation centers after brain and spinal cord lesions .
Result	The authors found that , in carefully selected patients with chronic pain syndromes , DBS can be helpful and can add to the quality of life .

Background	To develop and establish the psychometric properties of a pain treatment willingness scale and identify factors associated with willingness to try specific pain treatments for spinal cord injury ( SCI ) - related pain .
Method	As part of a larger study , a questionnaire was designed to assess willingness to use various pain medications and other types of pain treatments .
Method	This questionnaire , which included measures of pain severity , pain interference , mood , hope , and current use of pain treatments , was completed by persons with SCI recruited through the mail or in person .
Method	One hundred fifteen persons completed the questionnaire ( 35 % response rate ) .
Method	Seventy-two percent of the participants were men , mean age was 49.1 years , and average time elapsed since injury was 8 years .
Result	Factor analysis indicated two factors-willingness to use opioids and willingness to use nonpharmacological treatment ( i.e. , physical therapy , relaxation methods and stress management , and alternative medicine ) .
Result	Internal consistency and convergent and divergent validity were established .
Result	Persons experiencing SCI-related pain were more willing to use pain treatments than those without current pain , and those who were currently using opioids reported greater willingness to use that treatment .
Result	Persons who reported SCI-related pain were more willing to use nonpharmacological treatments than opioid medications .
Result	Finally , participants demonstrated different degrees of willingness to use an opioid medication based on its name ( i.e. , `` narcotic , '' `` codeine , '' `` morphine , '' `` methadone '' ) .
Result	Willingness to use a specific pain treatment may be a key factor mediating the behavior of using that specific treatment .
Result	Assessment of patient attitudes toward various treatments options , particularly regarding opioid medications , is warranted to optimize treatment adherence .
Result	Once the factors that determine these attitudes are identified , interventions to increase willingness to use nonpharmacological or opioid treatments can be designed and evaluated .

Background	In patients with low back pain ( LBP ) it is only possible to diagnose a small proportion , ( approximately 20 % ) , on a patho-anatomical basis .
Background	Therefore , the identification of relevant LBP subgroups , preferably on a patho-anatomical basis , is strongly needed .
Background	Signal changes on MRI in the vertebral body marrow adjacent to the end plates also known as Modic changes ( MC ) are common in patients with LBP ( 18-58 % ) and is strongly associated with LBP .
Background	In asymptomatic persons the prevalence is 12-13 % .
Background	MC are divided into three different types .
Background	Type 1 consists of fibro vascular tissue , type 2 is yellow fat , and type 3 is sclerotic bone .
Background	The temporal evolution of MC is uncertain , but the time span is years .
Background	Subchondral bone marrow signal changes associated with pain can be observed in different specific infectious , degenerative and immunological diseases such as osseous infections , osteoarthritis , ankylosing spondylitis and spondylarthritis .
Background	In the vertebrae , MC is seen in relation to vertebral fractures , spondylodiscitis , disc herniation , severe disc degeneration , injections with chymopapain , and acute Schmorl 's impressions .

Background	Conclusions based on systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials are considered to provide the highest level of evidence about the effectiveness of an intervention .
Method	This overview summarizes the available evidence from systematic reviews on the effects of nonpharmacological and nonsurgical interventions for rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) .
Method	Systematic reviews of studies of patients with RA ( aged > 18 years ) published between 2000 and 2007 were identified by comprehensive literature searches .
Method	Methodological quality was independently assessed by 2 authors , and the quality of evidence was summarized by explicit methods .
Method	Pain , function , and patient global assessment were considered primary outcomes of interest .
Method	Twenty-eight systematic reviews were included in this overview .
Result	High-quality evidence was found for beneficial effects of joint protection and patient education , moderate-quality evidence was found for beneficial effects of herbal therapy ( gamma-linolenic acid ) and low-level laser therapy , and low-quality evidence was
Result	The quality of evidence for the effectiveness of most nonpharmacological and nonsurgical interventions in RA is moderate to low .

Method	Conservative management of 54 patients with thoracolumbar ( T12 and/or L1 ) burst fractures was investigated .
Method	The fractures were subdivided according to the Denis classification and a modification was suggested .
Result	Most type A and B fractures showed good results regarding reduction and neurological improvement .
Result	However , severe type B ( with anterior column compression and spinal canal narrowing exceeding 50 % ) , D , and E fractures were to a large extent complicated by intractable low back pain , neurological involvement , and signs of instability .
Result	This study suggests predictors for complications in patients with burst fractures in the thoracolumbar junction .
Result	These are ( a ) compression rate of the anterior column exceeding 50 % , ( b ) narrowing of the spinal canal exceeding 50 % , ( c ) signs of rotational malalignment in fracture level , and ( d ) level of the injury ( L1 fractures ) .

Background	The term osteoporosis often conjures up an image of deformed spines , -- small stooping ladies burdened with back pain .
Background	Most modern medication against osteoporosis has documented effect first and foremost against vertebral fractures .
Background	However , are vertebral fractures a public health issue , and are they frequent and serious enough to warrant aggressive and expensive preventive measures ?
Method	Through search in Medline with the terms `` osteoporosis '' , `` vertebral fracture * '' and `` vertebral deformities '' , we identified and reviewed a total of 222 scientific articles on vertebral fractures .
Result	Incident vertebral deformities entail temporary complaints , and the consequences of prevalent deformities are minute unless there are several deformities .
Result	Less than 8 % of back pain among the elderly can be attributed to vertebral deformities .
Method	A large double-blind , randomised clinical trial demonstrates that treatment that halves the risk of new vertebral deformities barely affects the occurrence of back pain or disability .
Result	Even if some patients ' suffering is attributable to vertebral deformities , we conclude that vertebral deformities represent a minor public health problem .
Result	As a consequence , studies exploring predictors of painful vertebral fractures are warranted ; furthermore , more documentation on prevention of non-vertebral fractures is needed .

Background	Osmotic agents are widely used to lower elevated intracranial pressure ( ICP ) .
Background	However , little data are available regarding cerebral oxygenation and metabolism in the traumatized brains studied under clinical conditions .
Method	The present prospective , open-labeled clinical study was designed to investigate whether administration of mannitol , with the aim of reducing moderate intracranial hypertension , improves cerebral metabolism and oxygenation in patients after severe traumat
Method	Multimodal cerebral monitoring ( MCM ) , consisting of intraparenchymal ICP , tissue oxygenation ( ptiO2 ) , and micro dialysis measurements was initiated in six male TBI patients ( mean age 45 years ; Glasgow Coma Scale score < 9 ) .
Method	A total of 14 mannitol boli ( 20 % , 0.5 g/kg , 20 minutes infusion time ) were administered to treat ICP exceeding 20 mm Hg ( 2.7 kPa ) .
Method	Temporal alterations determined by MCM after mannitol infusions were recorded for 120 minutes .
Method	Microdialysates were assayed immediately for extracellular glucose , lactate , pyruvate , and glutamate concentrations .
Result	Elevated ICP was successfully treated in all cases .
Result	This effect was maximal 40 minutes after start of infusion ( 25 + / - 6 mm Hg [ 3.3 + / - 0.8 kPa ] to 17 + / - 3 mm Hg [ 2.3 + / - 0.4 kPa ] , p < 0.05 ) and lasted up to 100 minutes .
Result	Cerebral ptiO2 remained unaffected ( 21 + / - 5 mm Hg [ 2.8 + / - 0.7 kPa ] to 23 + / - 6 mm Hg [ 3.1 + / - 0.8 kPa ] , n.s. ) .
Result	Microdialysate concentrations of all analytes rose unspecifically by 10 % to 40 % from baseline , reaching maximum concentrations 40 to 60 minutes after start of the infusion .
Result	Mannitol efficiently reduces increased ICP .
Result	At an ICP of up to 30 mm Hg [ 4 kPa ] it does not affect cerebral oxygenation .
Result	Unspecific increases of extracellular fluid metabolites can be explained by transient osmotic dehydration .
Result	Additional mechanisms , such as increased cerebral perfusion and blood volume , might explain an accelerated return to baseline .

Background	Cardiac tamponade may occur following cardiac surgery as a result of blood or fluid collecting in the pericardial space compressing the heart and reducing cardiac output .
Background	Mediastinal chest drains ( including pericardial drains ) are inserted as standard post-operative practice following cardiac surgery to assist the clearance of blood from the pericardial space and to prevent cardiac tamponade .
Background	To prevent chest tubes from blocking and so causing tamponade nurses manipulate them to prevent or remove clots .
Background	Manipulation methods including milking , stripping , fanfolding and tapping may be applied to the tubes to keep them from blocking .
Background	Evidence is required as to the safest and most effective means of preventing chest tube blockage and preventing cardiac tamponade .
Method	To compare different methods of chest drain clearance ( i.e. varying levels of suction or suction in combination with milking , stripping , fanfolding and tapping of chest drains ) in preventing cardiac tamponade in patients following cardiac surgery .
Method	Over both the initial review and the 2004 revision , we searched the Cochrane Heart Group trials register , the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register ( CCTR ) ( Issue 4 , 2003 ) The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews ( CDSR ) , the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effectiveness ( DARE ) , Issue 4 , 2003 , MEDLINE ( 1966 to Nov Week 2 , 2003 ) , EMBASE ( 1980 to 2003 Week 47 ) , CINAHL ( 1982 to Nov 2003 ) , the Clinical Trials site of the NIH , ( USA ) ( 24.11.03 ) and reference lists of articles .
Method	Randomised , quasi-randomised or systematically allocated clinical trials of chest tube manipulation methods in adults and children with mediastinal chest drains following cardiac surgery were included .
Method	Two reviewers independently assessed trial quality and extracted data .
Method	Study authors were contacted for additional information where required .
Method	Adverse effects information was collected from the trials .
Method	Three studies with a total of 471 participants were included .
Result	There was no data , however , which could be included in a meta-analysis .
Result	This was due to inadequate data provision by two of the studies .
Result	Where adequate data were provided there were no common interventions or outcomes to pool .
Result	On the basis of single studies there was no evidence of a difference between groups on incidence of chest tube blockage , heart rate , cardiac tamponade or incidence of surgical re-entry .
Result	There are insufficient studies which compare differing methods of chest drain clearance to support or refute the relative efficacy of the various methods in preventing cardiac tamponade .
Result	Nor can the need to manipulate chest drains be supported or refuted by results from RCT 's .

Background	The impact of HIV/AIDS is different in developed and developing countries including India .
Background	Limited access to health care facilities , lack of infrastructure for diagnostic set up and cost of anti retroviral therapy are some of the reasons .
Background	Early accurate diagnosis of opportunistic infections ( OIs ) , the common presenting symptom of the patients , is the key for success of effective management .
Method	This review attempts an overview of few of the important OIs with which majority of Indian patients present in the clinics .
Background	Emphasis has been on conventional method of diagnostic approach , which is possible in most of the diagnostic laboratory set up in India .
Background	Awareness of the disease and maintenance of high index of clinical suspicion are required .
Background	An integrated approach to patient management with active interaction between clinicians and microbiologists would be highly beneficial .
Background	Introduction of routine in vitro antimicrobial testing system especially for Candida sp , Cryptococcus sp and Mycobacterium sp , is also important , in order to obtain a baseline data on the susceptibility pattern , which not only have therapeutic relevance ,
Result	Administrative support for the skill development of personnel , facility for data preservation and telemedicine can extend the diagnostic expertise to the remote areas , without affecting the patients mobility .

Method	Three hundred and twenty-six persons with light , moderate , or severe diffuse traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) were assessed during initial hospitalization in Johannesburg .
Method	One hundred and forty-four were followed up at approximately six months , 83 at 12 months , and 71 at 24 months posttrauma .
Method	The sample attrition rate was high .
Method	When patients could not be found , data were obtained from their caregivers .
Method	Recovery was measured in five different areas of functioning family relationships , psychologic problems , activities of daily living ( ADL ) , employment status , and physical status .
Result	Psychologic problems and family relationships worsened with time , but proficiency in ADL improved ; physical and employment status remained relatively stable during the survey period .
Result	Severity of injury was significantly correlated with outcome in each functional area at some point in the follow-up period .
Result	Discrepancies between patients ' and caregivers ' perceptions of outcome were noted , particularly in the area of psychologic functioning .
Result	Caregivers tended to rate the recovery made by the patient as better than the outcome patients perceived themselves to have made .
Result	These differences in perception diminished with time .
Result	The multifactorial nature of recovery after TBI is indicated by the improvements seen in some functional areas and the worsening of outcome in other areas .
Result	These findings suggest that rehabilitation programs for persons with TBI should ( 1 ) include caregivers , ( 2 ) focus on the adjustment of both parties to their new circumstances , and ( 3 ) facilitate a convergence in their perceptions .
Result	Adequately defining recovery is a first step to estimating the prevalence of TBI , but necessitates further work .
Result	Epidemiology awaits a better understanding of the recovery process after TBI .

Method	Immunoregulatory function of peripheral blood monocytes was studied in 20 patients with colorectal cancer , by assaying interleukin 1 ( IL-1 ) and prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) in the culture supernatant of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes .
Result	The results showed that IL-1 activity of the monocyte culture supernatant was decreased in the preoperative patients , compared with that of controls or postoperative groups ; the PGE2 content of the culture supernatant of monocytes from the preoperative ca
Result	Again , we found that there was significant negative correlation between IL-1 activity and the PGE2 content , with the activity of IL-1 the lowest and the content of PGE2 the highest in advanced colonic cancer patients .

Method	To evaluate the result of rehabilitation on motor and functional improvement in spinal tuberculosis .
Method	Prospective case study .
Method	Data were collected from 47 patients with spinal tuberculosis medically and/or surgically treated , and rehabilitated over 6 months of period , after spinal decompression and fusion .
Method	The main outcome measures were motor development of the patients who were evaluated at the beginning , in the 1st week , in the 3rd month , and in the 6th month .
Method	Functional development of the patients was evaluated at the beginning and in the 6th month .
Method	Functional assessment was made according to Modified Barthel Index ( MBI ) , and motor examination was made according to American Spinal Injury Association ( ASIA ) .
Result	The study population consisted of 47 patients ( 22 males and 25 females ) mean aged 37.9 + / - 18.3 years ( range 5-76 years ) .
Result	The most common site of spinal tuberculosis was the thoracic region .
Result	Localized back pain , paraparesis , sensory dysfunction and fever were typical clinical manifestations .
Result	Surgical management was performed as anterior or posterior drainage of abscess and/or stabilization of the spine .
Result	The rehabilitation program was performed in all patients during the preoperative , early postoperative and late postoperative 6 month periods .
Result	Muscle-strengthening exercises on necessary localization such as pectoral , abdominal , lower extremities ; truncal and sacrospinal extensors were started for the rehabilitation .
Result	The motor score for the lower limbs and the MBI scores for activities of daily living ( ADL ) and mobility improved significantly ( P < 0.001 ) .
Result	The self-care and mobility categories of the MBI on admission ; were 14.8 % severely dependent and 10.6 % independent .
Result	However , at the end of the rehabilitation program , 4.2 % were severely dependent and 70.2 % independent .
Result	Early diagnosis and appropriate medical and/or surgical treatment together with a rehabilitation program will improve the life quality of patients with spinal tuberculosis .

Background	The objective of this study was to identify a group of patients with mild closed head injury , lack of other significant trauma , and normal head computerized tomograph ( CT ) , who could be safely observed at home by a reliable caretaker .
Method	Data were from a retrospective chart review of pediatric emergency department ( PED ) and hospital course of an urban university children 's hospital .
Method	The pediatric trauma registry was used to identify patients one to 17 years old seen in the PED with closed-head injury and normal head CT between June 1991 and August 1992 .
Method	A total of 746 patients with heads injury were seen in the PED , and 161 patients with closed-head injury were admitted during the study period .
Method	Sixty-two patients ( mean age = 8.5 + / - 5 years ) met inclusion criteria with hospital admission , mild head injury , Glasgow Coma Scale > or = 13 , and normal head CT. .
Method	Of the patients 63 % ( 34 ) were male and 37 % ( 23 ) were female , with 74 % ( 46 ) African-American and 26 % ( 16 ) Caucasian .
Result	The most frequent mechanisms of injury were 27 % ( 17 ) fall from height ( mean height = 6.7 + / - 4.6 feet ) and 18 % ( 11 ) passenger in a motor vehicle accident .
Result	Patients had a median Glasgow Coma Scale of 15 ( mean 14.8 ) and median abbreviated injury score of 2 ( mean = 1.8 ) .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	Acute pancreatitis can result in pancreatic ischaemia and necrosis .
Background	Pancreatic duct ( PD ) obstruction may be the first step causing ischaemia in acute pancreatitis .
Background	Nitric oxide donors can attenuate acute pancreatitis through improvement in compromised pancreatic perfusion ( PP ) .
Method	In this study , we determined if ( 1 ) PD obstruction altered PP and ( 2 ) PD decompression or L-arginine administration reversed this change .
Method	Fifteen Australian possums were randomly assigned to two groups :
Method	Animals in group A ( n = 6 ) were subjected to 30 min of PD obstruction and 60 min of PD decompression .
Method	Animals in group B ( n = 9 ) were subjected to 120 min PD ligation and 60 min PD decompression .
Method	A subset group B ( n = 6 ) were subjected to intravenous L-arginine ( 100 microg/kg ) at the end of 120 min of ligation and at the end of PD decompression .
Method	The PP ( Laser Doppler fluxmetry ) , PD pressure and blood pressure were continuously monitored .
Result	PD pressure increased from 2.9 + / - 2.5 to 18.1 + / - 4.9 mmHg following PD ligation .
Result	PP was reduced to 67.1 % + / - 4.5 % ( P < 0.01 ) and 46.2 % + / - 7.5 % ( P < 0.001 ) of baseline following 30 and 120 min of PD ligation , respectively .
Result	Following 60 min of PD decompression , PP was restored to 89.1 % + / - 13.4 % ( P < 0.02 ) of the baseline in the 30-min group .
Result	However , following 120 min PD ligation , PP remained depressed .
Result	L-arginine administration after 120 min of PD ligation transiently increased PP from 46.2 % + / - 7.5 % to 81.1 % + / - 8.6 % ( P < 0.03 ) of baseline .
Result	This effect was reproduced if L-arginine was administered at the end of decompression ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	In patients with acute pancreatitis due to obstructive causes , early decompression of the PD may prevent early pancreatic ischaemia .

Background	The treatment of bipolar depression represents a relatively understudied area in clinical psychiatry .
Background	The depressive phases of bipolar disorder can be very disabling , with significant associated comorbidity and suicide risk , impairment in functioning , and infringement on quality of life .
Method	We review the current evidence for the management of bipolar depression .
Method	References for this review were obtained through MEDLINE searches of the medical literature on subjects pertaining to the treatment of bipolar depression .
Method	Search terms included bipolar depression , antidepressants , and bipolar disorder .
Method	Only publications in English are reviewed here .
Result	Lithium is currently the gold standard and most appropriate initial treatment for the depressive phase of bipolar disorder .
Result	Other mood stabilizers have demonstrated preliminary efficacy .
Result	Of the antidepressants , bupropion and the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors may be associated with less risk of inducing hypomania , mania , and rapid cycling compared with tricyclic antidepressants .
Result	Monoamine oxidase inhibitors should be considered for patients with anergic bipolar depression .
Result	Electroconvulsive therapy has been shown to be highly efficacious .
Result	Other treatment modalities , including psychotherapy , sleep deprivation , phototherapy , and newer medications , require further research .
Result	Although the treatment of bipolar depression can be a complicated clinical task , the treatment armamentarium is expanding .
Result	Further research , especially in the form of randomized controlled trials , is warranted .
Result	Clinicians should be familiar with general guidelines for the use of psychopharmacologic agents for treating bipolar depression .

Background	Spinal hydatid disease is a rare entity that frequently yields to severe , acute-onset neurological deficits .
Background	Although the gold standard treatment is total surgical removal of the cysts without inducing any spillage , it may not be possible to perform this in patients with multiple and fragile cysts .
Background	In such cases , the neural structures should be adequately decompressed and albendazole should be administered promptly .
Method	The authors describe the case of a 13-year-old girl who was admitted with a history of back pain and acute-onset lower-extremity weakness .
Method	Magnetic resonance imaging scans demonstrated severe spinal cord compression caused by multiple cysts involving T-4 and the mediastinum .
Method	The patient underwent surgery , and the cysts were removed , except for one cyst that was hardly exposed .
Method	Following histopathological confirmation of spinal hydatid disease , she was treated with albendazole for 1 year .
Result	One year postoperatively , the residual cyst had gradually shrunk and had almost disappeared .
Result	Although a single case is not sufficiently promising , we believe that administration of albendazole is efficient to prevent recurrences in cases in which it is not possible to obtain total removal of the cysts without inducing spillage .

Method	Serum concentrations of testosterone , 4-androstene-3 ,17 - dione ( androstenedione ) , dehydroepiandrosterone ( DHA ) and its sulphate and sex hormone-binding globulin ( SHBG ) were measured in 30 ovulatory women before and after down-regulation with gonadotrophin
Result	Nine of the women developed ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome ( OHSS ) while the others did not .
Result	Pretreatment values of androstenedione and the androstenedione : DHA ratios were higher and the testosterone : androstenedione ratios lower in the OHSS women .
Result	The decrease in androstenedione levels during down-regulation was greater and the absolute levels following down-regulation were lower in the OHSS group .
Result	Higher levels of SHBG and lower testosterone : SHBG ratios , an index of biologically active testosterone , were observed in the OHSS group .
Result	The isolated elevation in pretreatment androstenedione levels and the high SHBG levels make the OHSS group different from patients with polycystic ovarian disease .
Result	Pretreatment values of testosterone : androstenedione or testosterone/SHBG : androstenedione ratios and/or the decrease in androstenedione during down-regulation may be used as markers , prior to stimulation , for identifying women at risk of developing OHSS .

Background	In response to increasing demand for more accountability and improved outcomes in the provision of behavioural services , Specialist Education Services ( SES ) in New Zealand employed the trainer of trainers programme developed by the Institute for Applied B
Background	The goal was to develop a national training team capable of training SES staff to carry out assessments and develop support plans that could meet defined standards .
Method	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the outcomes of this trainer of trainers project .
Method	The primary methods of evaluation included the pre-post training comparisons of trainees ' functional assessments and positive behaviour support plans , against 140 defined criteria .
Result	The results of this project indicated that the SES national training team was able to train SES staff to meet the same standards of service delivery as the external IABA trainers .
Result	Further , a Periodic Service Review ( PSR ) system was implemented to insure that service standards could be maintained at a high level .
Result	A major conclusion reached in this study was that a trainer of trainer approach appears to be effective in preparing large numbers of educational personnel to meet the increasing demands by schools for professionals to meet a high standard of service deli

Background	Three-dimensional ( 3-D ) ultrasound is a relatively new technique , which is well suited to imaging superficial blood vessels , and potentially provides a useful , noninvasive method for generating anatomically realistic 3-D models of the peripheral vasculatu
Background	Such models are essential for accurate simulation of blood flow using computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) , but may also be used to quantify atherosclerotic plaque more comprehensively than routine clinical methods .
Background	In this paper , we present a spline-based method for reconstructing the normal and diseased carotid artery bifurcation from images acquired using a freehand 3-D ultrasound system .
Background	The vessel wall ( intima-media interface ) and lumen surfaces are represented by a geometric model defined using smoothing splines .
Background	Using this coupled wall-lumen model , we demonstrate how plaque may be analyzed automatically to provide a comprehensive set of quantitative measures of size and shape , including established clinical measures , such as degree of ( diameter ) stenosis .
Background	The geometric accuracy of 3-D ultrasound reconstruction is assessed using pulsatile phantoms of the carotid bifurcation , and we conclude by demonstrating the in vivo application of the algorithms outlined to 3-D ultrasound scans from a series of patient c

Method	This study assessed the first year of a regional general practitioner ( GP ) open-access neuroimaging service , to determine diagnostic yield and influence on patient management .
Result	Overall , 48.1 % of examinations demonstrated a radiologically significant abnormality with 64.1 % of spinal imaging examinations demonstrating significant findings .
Result	Utilised appropriately , a regional open-access neuroimaging service has good diagnostic yield and may influence the management of most referred patients .

Background	The purpose of this study was to determine whether the proportion of skeletal muscle in the fat-free soft tissue mass ( FFST ) is the same in men with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and able-bodied controls .
Method	Skeletal muscle mass and FFST of the midthigh were determined by using magnetic resonance imaging and dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry , respectively , in men with long-term ( > 2 yr ) complete SCI ( n = 8 ) and able-bodied controls of similar age , height , and weight ( n = 8 ) .
Result	Muscle mass ( 1.36 + / - 0.77 vs. 2.44 + / - 0.47 kg ) and FFST ( 1.70 + / - 0.94 vs. 2.73 + / - 0.80 kg ) were lower in the SCI group than in the controls ( P < 0.05 ) , but the lower ratio of muscle to FFST in the SCI group ( 0.80 + / - 0.09 vs. 0.91 + / - 0.10 , P <
Result	This notion was supported by analysis of covariance , in that the mean muscle adjusted to the mean FFST of the groups combined was lower in the SCI group .
Result	Despite the lower proportion of muscle in the FFST of the SCI group , the relation between muscle and FFST was strong in the SCI group ( r = 0.99 ) and controls ( r = 0.96 ) .
Result	The findings suggest a disproportionate loss of muscle in the paralyzed thighs after SCI relative to other nonfat constituents , which may be accurately estimated in men with long-term SCI by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry if the lower proportion of musc

Method	( a )
Background	To examine how self-reported well-being , weight-related concerns , self-image , peer relationships and psychiatric disorders are associated with obesity at ages 11 and 15 years .
Method	( b )
Background	To identify and describe those who slim down ( become nonobese ) or become obese .
Method	A cohort of 2127 school pupils was surveyed at ages 11 and 15 years .
Method	At each age , those with body mass index above the 95th percentile for age and gender were categorized as obese .
Method	Characteristics associated with obesity , slimming down and becoming obese were examined using ANOVA and chi-square procedures for univariate , and logistic regression for multivariate analyses .
Result	At age 11 , 9.6 % ( males ) and 10.5 % ( females ) were obese , compared with 10.5 % ( males ) and 11.6 % ( females ) at age 15 .
Result	Slimming down occurred for 3.5 % of the total sample , whereas 4.5 % became obese .
Result	Obesity was associated with significant but small differences in low mood ( males at 11 ) and self-esteem ( males at 11 , females at both ages ) , and reduced rates of behavior disorders ( data on psychiatric disorders available only at age 15 ) .
Result	Obesity was associated with weight-related worries , dieting , and poor self-rated appearance , but not most measures of peer relationships , except that obese 11-year-olds experienced greater victimization , partly accounting for their poorer well-being .
Result	In comparison with the continuously nonobese , those who became obese had lower prior self-esteem and greater victimization , but improvements in well-being and relative reductions in victimization by age 15 .
Method	Slimming down was related to neither prior nor subsequent well-being in comparison with continual obesity , but was associated with better age 15 mood in comparison with continual nonobesity .
Result	Although overweight was fairly stable , there were shifts in and out of the obese category during adolescence .
Result	Obesity during this life-stage , though strongly related to worries about putting on weight and self-report dieting , was associated with only small differences in psychological well-being .

Background	Age is assumed to be a negative prognostic factor in recovery from moderate-to-severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) .
Background	Little is known on cognitive performance after mild TBI in relation to age in the sub-acute stage after injury .
Method	Ninety-nine mild TBI subjects ( age 15-75 ) were compared with 91 healthy control subjects ( age 14-74 ) in a case-control design .
Method	Patients were matched on age , sex and level of education , with control subjects .
Method	Mean interval between injury and cognitive assessment was 13 days .
Method	Neurocognitive test battery contained tests of verbal memory , selective attention , general speed of information processing and verbal fluency .
Result	An overall effect was found of a single mild TBI on neurocognitive performance in the sub-acute stage after injury .
Result	Age did not add significantly to the effect of mild TBI on cognitive functioning .
Result	Patients suffering from mild TBI are characterized by subtle neurocognitive deficits in the weeks directly following the trauma .
Result	The notion that elderly subjects have a worse outcome in the sub-acute period after mild TBI is at least not in line with the results of this study .

Background	To examine the relation between leisure-time physical activity and ovarian cancer .
Method	We used data from a population based case-control study .
Method	Cases ( n = 767 ) were women 20-69 years of age in whom epithelial ovarian cancer was diagnosed during 1994-1998 and who resided in a defined region of Pennsylvania , New Jersey , or Delaware .
Method	Controls ( n = 1367 ) were ascertained by using random-digit dialing and Health Care Financing Administration files and were frequency-matched to cases for age and county of residence .
Method	Information on lifetime leisure-time physical activity was obtained during in-person interviews .
Result	Leisure-time physical activity was significantly associated with reduced occurrence of ovarian cancer ( P = .01 ) .
Result	After adjustment for age , parity , oral contraceptive use , tubal ligation , family history of ovarian cancer , race , and body mass index , women with the highest level of activity had an odds ratio of 0.73 ( 95 % CI 0.56 , 0.94 ) for ovarian cancer compared with
Result	When the relation was analyzed by various recalled time periods during life , the odds ratios for the highest versus the lowest category of activity at ages 14-17 , 18-21 , 22-29 , 30-39 , 40-49 , and > 50 years ranged from 0.64-0 .78 .
Result	Leisure-time physical activity is associated with reduced occurrence of epithelial ovarian cancer .

Background	With the advent of holo-body computed tomography scanning of trauma patients , the radiologic diagnosis of transverse process fractures ( TPF ) has increased .
Method	The significance of this fracture has not been elucidated .
Background	Spine service ( neurosurgical or orthopedic ) consultation is frequently requested for patients with these fractures , stressing constraints on these practices .
Method	We hypothesize that isolated transverse process fractures ( iTPF ) are structurally and neurologically stable injuries , which do not require spine service intervention .
Method	Patients for this retrospective , institutional review board-approved study were identified by reviewing the daily neurosurgical census from July 2004 to February 2007 .
Method	Data were collected by chart review on all patients with TPF-grouped into isolated fractures ( iTPF ) and fractures with other associated spinal injuries ( aTPF ) .
Method	Other parameters evaluated included fracture location , other spinal injuries , nonspinal injuries , mechanical stability , neurologic findings , pain , and treatment ( surgical stabilization or decompression or bracing or both ) .
Method	Eighty-four patients with one or more TPF were identified-47 with iTPF and 37 with aTPF .
Result	All iTPF and aTPF patients were found to be neurologically intact .
Result	No patients with iTPF required surgery or bracing for spinal stability , but 4 aTPF needed surgery and 18 aTPF required bracing with a total of 22 requiring neurosurgical intervention ( p < 0.0001 ) .
Result	However , none of these patients received treatment for the TPF .
Result	Twenty-five patients had associated abdominal injuries ( 16 of 46 iTPF , 9 of 37 aTPF , p = 0.3335 ) .
Result	iTPF are not associated with neurologic deficit or structural instability requiring spine service intervention .
Result	Therefore , conservative management without neurosurgical or orthopedic consultation is appropriate .
Result	When TPF are identified , diligence in searching for other spinal injuries or abdominal injuries should be exercised , as these associated injuries occur frequently .

Background	The resurgence of tuberculosis ( TB ) has coincided with deteriorating access to care for high-risk populations .
Background	We sought to determine what perceived access barriers delayed symptomatic TB patients from obtaining care .
Method	In order to do this , we conducted a survey in Los Angeles County , California , using a consecutive sample of patients with active TB as confirmed by the county TB control authority .
Method	The measures used in the study were a self-reported delay in seeking care of more than 60 d from symptom onset , a period sufficient to cause skin-test conversion in exposed contacts , and self-reported access barriers .
Method	The county TB registry provided supplementary clinical data .
Result	We found that one in five of the 248 symptomatic respondents ( response rate : 60 % ) delayed obtaining care for > 60 d ( mean = 74 d , SD = 216 d ) .
Result	During the delay , patients exposed an average of eight contacts .
Result	As compared with the rest of the sample , delay was more common in those who were unemployed ( 25 % versus 14 % ) , concerned about cost ( 27 % versus 14 % ) , anticipated prolonged waiting-room time ( 26 % versus 14 % ) , believed they could treat themselves ( 31 % versus
Result	Logistic regression revealed that uncertainty about where to get care , unemployment , and belief in the efficacy of self-treatment independently predicted delay > 60 d.
Result	Illness severity as measured by chest radiography , sputum smears , and symptoms had little impact on delay .
Result	We conclude that because access variables such as lack of employment and knowledge about where to obtain care were more closely associated with clinically significant delay than was severity of illness , these results raise concerns about the equity of acc
Result	The results suggest that improving the availability of services for high-risk groups may substantially reduce TB patients ' delay in obtaining care , and thus may limit the spread of the disease .

Background	A single dose of an alpha1-noradrenergic antagonist transiently reinstates hemiplegia after recovery from brain injury , which suggests that noradrenaline ( NA ) is required to maintain recovery .
Background	No systematic studies have determined the postinjury duration of this vulnerability .
Method	This study used a within-subject , dose-response design to determine whether prazosin ( PRAZ ) , an alpha1-NA antagonist , or propranolol ( PROP ) , a beta-NA antagonist , would continue to reinstate hemiplegia over time after recovery from weight-drop traumatic b
Method	PRAZ transiently reinstated hemiplegia as measured by beam walk ( BW ) score in a dose-dependent manner , with the same degree of symptom reinstatement at 1 , 3 , 6 , and 12 months post-TBI .
Result	Between-animal variability in reinstatement of hemiplegia by PRAZ was predicted by severity of deficits in BW ability 24 h after TBI .
Result	In contrast , PRAZ did not reinstate tactile placing deficits at 1 month post-TBI suggesting a different mechanism of maintaining recovery for each task .
Result	Reinstatement of symptoms are not due to sedation .
Result	Only TBI rats receiving PRAZ , not high , sedating doses of PROP or saline ( SAL ) , showed return of hemiplegia .
Result	These data indicate that vulnerability to transient reinstatement of hemiplegia on some tasks endures long after functional recovery from TBI .

Background	The presence of edema on MR imaging is a common finding in acute or subacute vertebral body compression fractures .
Background	Compression fractures can present in patients with benign osteoporosis , metastases , multiple myeloma , or hemangiomas .
Background	We present 2 patients with multiple myeloma who had symptomatic acute and subacute compression fractures documented on imaging studies without associated edema on MR imaging evaluation .

Background	Health care reform in the United States is on a collision course with economic reality .
Background	Most proposals focus on measures that will produce one-time cost savings by eliminating waste and inefficiency .
Background	But the right question to ask is how to achieve dramatic and sustained cost reductions over time .
Background	What will it take to foster entirely new approaches to disease prevention and treatment , whole new ways to deliver services , and more cost-effective facilities ?
Background	The answer lies in the powerful lessons business has learned over the past two decades about the imperatives of competition .
Background	In industry after industry , the underlying dynamic is the same : competition compels companies to deliver constantly increasing value to customers .
Background	The fundamental driver of this continuous quality improvement and cost reduction is innovation .
Background	Without incentives to sustain innovation in health care , short-term cost savings will soon be overwhelmed by the desire to widen access , the growing health needs of an aging population , and the unwillingness of Americans to settle for anything less than t
Background	The misguided assumption underlying much of the debate about health care is that technology is the enemy .
Background	By assuming that technology drives up costs , reformers neglect the central importance of innovation or , worse yet , attempt to slow its pace .
Background	In fact , innovation , driven by rigorous competition , is the key to successful reform .

Background	Enoxaparin , a low molecular weight heparin , has been demonstrated to be effective in the prophylaxis and treatment of deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) in the general population .
Background	This study presents an analysis of the costs of subcutaneous ( SQ ) enoxaparin compared with intravenous ( IV ) heparin .
Method	Data were gathered on six spinal cord injured ( SCI ) patients in an acute freestanding rehabilitation center who were initially treated with SQ enoxaparin ( n = 3 ) or IV heparin ( n = 3 ) for a proximal DVT .
Result	No patients in either group developed further clinical complications .
Result	Comparison of the total costs of each treatment was performed , including the direct cost of the drug , as well as some of the costs of administration .
Result	Although the cost of enoxaparin per unit dose is higher , the total costs of enoxaparin are slightly lower , because its labor and administration costs are less .
Result	Subcutaneous enoxaparin is a safe , cost-effective , and less labor-intensive treatment , and can be of substantial benefit in the treatment of DVT in SCI patients in the rehabilitation setting .

Background	We report the successful treatment of refractory ischemic pain from cisplatin-induced Raynaud 's syndrome with spinal cord stimulation after failed pharmacologic management and surgical sympathectomy .
Background	Case Report : A 48-year-old man developed ischemic pain of the hands while undergoing cisplatin and gemcitabine chemotherapy for metastatic pancreatic carcinoma .
Result	After extensive pharmacologic management and surgical sympathectomy failed to provide adequate analgesia , the patient underwent a percutaneous spinal cord stimulation trial followed by permanent implantation and received significant pain relief prior to s
Result	Spinal cord stimulation provided effective therapy for refractory ischemic pain , even after failed sympathectomy .

Method	A total of 61 traumatic cervical cord-injured patients were included in this study .
Method	Needle electromyography and nerve conduction study were performed at 6 to 24 weeks postinjury .
Background	Correlation between the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials and the presence of dysesthetic pain , as well as other clinical characteristics including age , gender , level of injury , severity of injury , spasticity , duration of injury , and pe
Result	Of the 31 patients who had spontaneous electromyographic potentials in their hands , 27 ( 87 % ) had dysesthetic pain in their limbs .
Result	Only 9 ( 30 % ) of the other 30 patients without spontaneous potentials developed dysesthetic pain .
Result	A significant correlation ( P < 0.001 ) between the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potential and dysesthetic pain was found .
Result	The presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials was also significantly ( P < 0.05 ) correlated with severity of injury but not with age , gender , injury level , duration of injury , operation , and spasticity .
Result	In conclusion , the presence of spontaneous electromyographic potentials in cervical cord-injured patients was significantly related to the presence of dysesthetic pain .
Result	They occurred more often in patients with more severe injury .

Background	Severe hypoxic respiratory failure secondary to massive pulmonary hemorrhage ( MPH ) in preterm infants could be fatal .
Method	The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy of high-frequency ventilation ( HFV ) as a rescue therapy for respiratory failure secondary to MPH in very-low-birth-weight ( VLBW ) infants .
Method	Prospectively we followed up all VLBW infants with pulmonary hemorrhage between January 1993 and December 1996 in our neonatal intensive care unit at King Khalid University Hospital .
Method	Seventeen VLBW infants with severe hypoxic respiratory failure secondary to MPH were treated with HFV .
Result	Ten ( 59 % ) infants responded to HFV and survived , while the other 7 ( 41 % ) did not respond and expired .
Result	Patent ductus arteriosus was considered the most common associated condition in 10 infants ( 59 % ) .
Result	There were no statistically significant differences between the responders and the nonresponders in regard to gestational age , birth weight , sex ratio , % inborn , and primary diagnosis .
Result	However , preintervention peak inspiratory pressure ( pip ) , arterial-alveolar ratio ( a/A ratio ) and oxygenation index ( OI ) were higher in the nonresponders ( p = 0.02 , p = 0.03 , and p = 0.003 , respectively ) , while pip , F IO ( 2 ) , pa CO ( 2 ) , a/A ratio and OI we
Result	In conclusion , HFV might be an effective and lifesaving mode of treatment in VLBW infants with respiratory failure secondary to MPH ; therefore , prospective randomized controlled trials are needed to confirm these findings .

Background	For the past decade , the role of noradrenaline in depression has been somewhat neglected in favour of serotonin .
Background	This is largely because of the advent of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , which have facilitated clinical and experimental observation of the roles of serotonin .
Background	Until now , no such tools have been available to study the noradrenergic system .
Background	However , the recent development of reboxetine , the first selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor , has allowed clinical investigation of the role of the noradrenergic system in different aspects of depressive disorders .
Result	In clinical trials , the use of reboxetine has shown that selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibition is an effective approach to alleviating depression .
Result	It is more effective than placebo and at least as effective as desipramine , imipramine and fluoxetine in the short term .
Result	In addition , its efficacy is maintained in patients with severe depression and in those receiving long-term maintenance treatment .
Result	Reboxetine is very well tolerated , as predicted from its pharmacological profile , having fewer anticholinergic side-effects than imipramine or desipramine .
Result	Compared with fluoxetine , patients treated with reboxetine experienced less nausea and sexual dysfunction , adverse events that are common among those taking selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors .
Result	Adverse events predicted by the neuroanatomy of the noradrenergic system , such as tremor and cardiovascular effects , occurred less frequently than expected .
Result	Clinical experience with reboxetine challenges our current knowledge of the role of noradrenaline in depression and questions existing evidence based on studies with noradrenergic tricyclic antidepressants .
Result	Selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibition , as exemplified by reboxetine , therefore offers a significant improvement in antidepressant pharmacotherapy , and an opportunity to increase our understanding of the role of noradrenaline in depression .

Background	There are three superimposed centres of micturition : the sacral spinal centre , which is the oldest centre controlled by the pontine centre situated in the brain stem , which in turn is under the control of multiple subconscious structures : cerebellum , stri
Background	The nervous pathways consist of the classical spinal pathways as far as their point of emergence .
Background	The innervation involves 2 systems : -- a supra-levator system consisting of the essentially sympathetic superior hypogastric plexus and the essentially parasympathetic inferior hypogastric plexus which innervates the seminal tract , the bladder and the prost

Background	To evaluate the radiological spectrum of sequelae of corrosive acid and alkali injury to the upper gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract using barium contrast examination .
Method	Barium contrast radiographic films of 155 patients with a history of corrosive ingestion , acid in 120 and alkali in 35 patients with grade 2b and 3 injury on initial endoscopy , were retrospectively evaluated .
Method	Barium contrast examination of the upper GI tract was performed in the course of follow-up , beyond 3 weeks of corrosive ingestion .
Result	The esophagus was involved in 131 patients and the stomach in 74 .
Result	Fifty patients had simultaneous involvement of esophagus and stomach .
Result	Radiological findings in the esophagus were solitary or multiple strictures of varying length , intramural pseudodiverticula , and carcinoma in long-standing corrosive injury .
Result	The stomach showed cicatrization , predominantly involving the antrum , linitis plastica type deformity with multiple pseudodiverticula .
Result	There was no difference in the radiological findings as to the type of corrosive ingested .
Result	Barium examination of the upper GI tract is useful in the evaluation of late sequelae of corrosive injury ( acid/alkali ) .
Result	There was no difference in the radiological findings as to the type of corrosive ingested .
Result	Thus , contrary to general belief , we found that acid and alkali damage both the esophagus and the stomach with equal degree of severity .

Background	Hip flexor spasticity , which is often associated with central nervous system ( CNS ) diseases , is a major impediment in rehabilitation .
Background	In order to cope with this problem , lumbar nerve blocking techniques developed by Meelhuysen and major and minor psoas muscle blocking techniques developed by Awad have been used in combination with physical therapies .
Background	Based on these techniques , we conducted major and minor psoas muscle phenol block ( motor point block or intramuscular nerve block ) under ultrasonic monitoring .
Method	Phenol block was conducted in nine patients with cerebral infarction ( 13 blocking procedures ) and three with spinal cord injuries ( six blocking procedures ) while keeping them in a lateral position with the operation side upside .
Method	The beginning of the femoral nerves and part of the lumbar artery were visualized by ultrasound in some patients .
Result	As a result of the improvement of hip flexor spasticity , the range of hip joint motion ( determined by the Mundale technique , prone hip extension and Thomas test ) improved shortly after blocking .
Result	When physical therapy was conducted after blocking , improvement of skin care management was observed in eight cases , ability to keep in a stable sitting position in nine , improvement of a standing posture in three , increases in the ability to walk in two
Result	Although nerve block is reported to result in hematoma , decreases in muscle force , pain , cystic/rectal disorders and hypogonadism , we have observed no such complication in our patients .

Background	Ventilator-associated pneumonia ( VAP ) is a common infection among patients in trauma intensive care units ( ICUs ) .
Background	It has been suggested by different investigators that VAP is an indicator of injury severity and not necessarily associated with mortality .
Background	Crude mortality rates approximating 20 % have been reported for trauma patients with VAP .
Background	Most studies have involved the most severely injured patients , making it difficult to determine the relative contribution of either VAP or injury severity to death .
Background	If VAP is independently associated with mortality , this relationship should be most evident in less severely injured patients .
Method	We studied patients with less severe injuries ( Injury Severity Score , ISS < 25 ) to determine the impact of VAP on outcomes .
Method	Patients admitted to the trauma ICU with ISS < 25 were identified from the trauma registry of a level I trauma center .
Method	Patients with penetrating injuries and those who died within 48 h of injury were excluded .
Method	Pneumonia was diagnosed using quantitative cultures of bronchoalveolar lavage effluent ( > / = 10 ( 5 ) colony forming units/mL ) .
Method	Risk factors for VAP , including age , transfusions with 24 h of admission , brain injury , and chest injury severity were analyzed .
Result	Logistic regression analysis was then performed to determine independent factors for death.Results : There were 15,492 blunt admissions over a 5.5 year study period who survived > 48 h.
Result	Of these , 5,860 ( 38 % ) were admitted to the ICU , and 4,111 ( 70 % of ICU admissions ) had ISS < 25 .
Result	The incidence of VAP in this group was 8 % .
Result	Patients with VAP were older ( 47 vs 39 years ) , had more transfusions within 24 h ( 2.5 vs 0.9 units of red blood cell concentrates ) and had greater injury severity by ISS ( 16.7 vs 12.6 points ) , GCS ( Glasgow Coma Scale ) score ( 11.8 vs. 13.7 points ) and ches
Result	Overall mortality was 4 % .
Result	Mortality was 16 % in patients with VAP compared to 3 % in those without VAP ( p < 0.0001 ) .
Result	Logistic regression analysis identified transfusions , age , and VAP as independent predictors of mortality .
Result	Other descriptors of injury severity ( ISS , GCS , or chest AIS ) were not associated with death .
Result	48 h.
Result	Of these , 5,860 ( 38 % ) were admitted to the ICU , and 4,111 ( 70 % of ICU admissions ) had ISS , 25 .
Result	The incidence of VAP in this group was 8 % .
Result	Patients with VAP were older ( 47 vs 39 years ) , had more transfusions within 24 h ( 2.5 vs 0.9 units of red blood cell concentrates ) and had greater injury severity by ISS ( 16.7 vs 12.6 points ) , GCS ( Glasgow Coma Scale ) score ( 11.8 vs. 13.7 points ) and ches
Result	Overall mortality was 4 % .
Result	Mortality was 16 % in patients with VAP compared to 3 % in those without VAP ( p , 0.0001 ) .
Result	Logistic regression analysis identified transfusions , age , and VAP as independent predictors of mortality .
Result	Other descriptors of injury severity ( ISS , GCS , or chest AIS ) were not associated with death .
Result	Ventilator-associated pneumonia is independently associated with death in less severely injured trauma patients .
Result	This demonstrates the need for effective diagnostic techniques so that adequate therapy may be initiated .
Result	Prevention of VAP in less severely injured trauma patients should increase survival .

Background	Appendicitis is the most common cause of acute abdominal pain requiring surgical intervention .
Background	The cause of appendicitis is unclear and the mechanism of pathogenesis continues to be debated .
Background	Despite improved asepsis and surgical techniques , postoperative complications , such as wound infection and intraabdominal abscess , still account for a significant morbidity .
Background	Several studies implicate that postoperative infections are reduced by administration of antimicrobial regimes .
Method	This review evaluated the use of antibiotics compared to placebo or no treatment in patients undergoing appendectomy .
Method	Will these patients benefit from antimicrobial prophylaxis ?
Method	The outcomes were described according to the nature of the appendix , as either simple appendicitis ( including the non-infectious stage ) and complicated appendicitis .
Method	The efficacy of different antibiotic regimens were not evaluated .
Method	We searched The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( Cochrane Library 2005 issue 1 ) ; Pubmed ; EMBASE ; and the Cochrane Colorectal Cancer Group Specialised Register ( April 2005 ) .
Method	In addition , we manually searched the reference lists of the primary identified trials .
Method	We evaluated Randomised Controlled Trials ( RCTs ) and Controlled Clinical Trials ( CCTs ) in which any antibiotic regime were compared to placebo in patients suspected of having appendicitis , and undergoing appendectomy .
Method	Both studies on children and adults were reviewed .
Method	The outcome measures of the studies were Wound infection , intra abdominal abscess , length of stay in hospital , and mortality .
Method	Eligibility and trial quality were assessed , recorded and cross-checked by two reviewers .
Method	Forty-five studies including 9576 patients were included in this review .
Result	The overall result is that the use of antibiotics is superior to placebo for preventing wound infection and intraabdominal abscess , with no apparent difference in the nature of the removed appendix .
Result	Studies exclusively on children and studies examining topical application reported results in favour to the above , although the results were not significant .
Result	Antibiotic prophylaxis is effective in the prevention of postoperative complications in appendectomised patients , whether the administration is given pre - , peri - or post-operatively , and could be considered for routine in emergency appendectomies .

Method	We describe seven patients with multiple myeloma who were treated for acute vertebral body fractures with percutaneous vertebroplasty to a total of 14 vertebrae .
Result	Six of the seven patients had at least a 50 % decrease in their pain scores at 24 h following vertebroplasty .
Result	There were no procedure-related complications .
Result	These encouraging results prompt us to suggest further large-scale evaluation of this procedure in myeloma patients .

Background	Hospital-based clinicians have been shown to use and attain benefits from online evidence systems .
Background	To our knowledge there have been no studies investigating whether and how ambulance officers use online evidence systems if provided .
Background	We surveyed ambulance officers to examine their knowledge and use of the Clinical Information Access Program ( CIAP ) , an online evidence system providing 24-hour access to information to support evidence-based practice .
Method	A questionnaire was completed by 278 ambulance officers in New South Wales , Australia .
Method	Comparisons were made between those who used CIAP and officers who had heard of , but not used CIAP .
Result	Half the sample ( 48.6 % ) knew of , and 28.8 % had used CIAP .
Result	Users were more likely to have heard of CIAP from a CIAP representative/presentation , non-users from written information .
Result	Compared to ambulance officers who had heard of but had not used CIAP , users were more likely to report better computer skills and that their supervisors regarded use of CIAP as a legitimate part of ambulance officers ' clinical role .
Result	The main reasons for non-use were lack of access ( 49.0 % ) and training ( 31.4 % ) .
Result	Of users , 51.3 % rated their skills at finding information as good/very good , 67.5 % found the information sought all/most of the time , 87.3 % believed CIAP had the potential to improve patient care and 28.2 % had directly experienced this .
Result	Most access to CIAP occurred at home .
Result	The databases frequently accessed were MIMS ( A medicines information database ) ( 73.8 % ) and MEDLINE ( 67.5 % ) .
Result	The major journals accessed were Journal of Emergency Nursing ( 37.5 % ) , American Journal of Medicine ( 30.0 % ) and JAMA ( 27.5 % ) .
Result	Over half of ambulance officers had not heard of CIAP .
Result	The proportion who knew about and used CIAP was also low .
Result	Reasons for this appear to be a work culture not convinced of CIAP 's relevance to pre-hospital patient care and lack of access to CIAP at work .

Background	Neuropathic pain is responsible for a significant amount of the morbidity associated with generalized and focal peripheral neuropathies .
Background	It is a consequence of alterations in neuronal function , chemistry , and structure that occur secondary to nerve injury .
Background	These manifestations of neuronal plasticity occur in the peripheral nerve , spinal cord , and brain .
Background	A variety of agents from diverse pharmacologic classes , the so-called adjuvant analgesics , have been used to treat neuropathic pain .
Background	These include antidepressants , first - and second-generation anticonvulsants , antiarrhythmic agents , topical agents , N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists , and opioid analgesics .
Background	The use of these adjuvant analgesics , either alone or in combination , should result in the alleviation of neuropathic pain in most patients .
Background	Recent advances in the understanding of pain mechanisms at multiple central nervous system levels should pave the way toward more effective treatment modalities .

Background	This report describes the case mix and outcome ( mortality , intensive care unit ( ICU ) and hospital length of stay ) for admissions to ICU for head injury and evaluates the predictive ability of five risk adjustment models .
Method	A secondary analysis was conducted of data from the Intensive Care National Audit and Research Centre ( ICNARC ) Case Mix Programme , a high quality clinical database , of 374,594 admissions to 171 adult critical care units across England , Wales and Northern
Method	The discrimination and calibration of five risk prediction models , SAPS II , MPM II , APACHE II and III and the ICNARC model plus raw Glasgow Coma Score ( GCS ) were compared .
Result	There were 11,021 admissions following traumatic brain injury identified ( 3 % of all database admissions ) .
Result	Mortality in ICU was 23.5 % and in-hospital was 33.5 % .
Result	Median ICU and hospital lengths of stay were 3.2 and 24 days , respectively , for survivors and 1.6 and 3 days , respectively , for non-survivors .
Result	The ICNARC model , SAPS II and MPM II discriminated best between survivors and non-survivors and were better calibrated than raw GCS , APACHE II and III in 5,393 patients eligible for all models .
Result	Traumatic brain injury requiring intensive care has a high mortality rate .
Result	Non-survivors have a short length of ICU and hospital stay .
Result	APACHE II and III have poorer calibration and discrimination than SAPS II , MPM II and the ICNARC model in traumatic brain injury ; however , no model had perfect calibration .

Background	An interactive data management ( IDM ) system for the Spinal Cord Injury ( SCI ) Service was developed to collect self-reported patient data related to secondary medical complications and to provide feedback to the SCI rehabilitation team .
Background	The long-term objective is to improve clinical care through a process of staff review of current rehabilitation programs in the areas of prevalence , prevention , and management .
Method	Based on data from the first 99 SCI patients visiting the clinic and hospital after the installation of the IDM system , SCI patients reported high rates of current problems with spasticity ( 53 percent ) , pain ( 44 percent ) , and pressure ulcers ( 38 percent ) .
Method	Respiratory ( 12 percent ) and bowel ( 14 percent ) problems were less common current problems .
Method	The SCI staff questioned the reportedly high spasticity rates .
Result	They thought that the patients ' answers might have indicated simply the occurrence of spasticity , rather than the more important issue of severe spasticity that interferes with daily activities .
Result	The staff suggested several additional spasticity questions to add to the study .
Result	In other areas , only a small percentage of patients wanted to talk with a therapist about prevention of pressure ulcers .
Result	Patients who had urinary problems consistently reported five urinary signs ( e.g. , cloudy urine ) .
Result	The clinical staff found these data informative and stated that they should continue to be collected .

Background	The authors described the influence of specific medical conditions on clinical remission and response of major depression ( MDD ) in a clinical trial evaluating a care-management intervention among older primary-care patients .
Method	Adults age 60 years and older were randomly selected and screened for depression .
Method	Participants were randomly assigned to Usual Care or to an Intervention with a depression care-manager offering algorithm-based care for MDD .
Method	In all , 324 adults meeting criteria for MDD were included in these analyses .
Method	Remission and response was defined by a score on the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression < 10 and by a decrease from baseline of > or = 50 % , respectively .
Method	Medical comorbidity was ascertained through self-report .
Method	Cognitive impairment was defined by a score < 24 on the Mini-Mental State Exam ( MMSE ) .
Result	In Usual Care , rates of remission were faster in persons who reported atrial fibrillation ( AF ) than in persons who did not report AF and slower in persons who reported chronic pulmonary disease than in persons who did not report chronic pulmonary disease ;
Result	In the Intervention condition , none of the specific chronic medical conditions were significantly associated with outcomes for MDD .
Result	Because disease-specific findings were observed in persons who received Usual Care but not in persons who received more intensive treatment in the Intervention condition , our results suggest that the association of medical comorbidity and treatment outcom

Background	Women with endometriosis who are treated with in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) have a lower pregnancy rate compared to women with tubal factor infertility .
Background	It has been suggested that the administration of gonadotrophin releasing hormone ( GnRH ) agonists for a few months prior to IVF or ICSI increases the pregnancy rate .
Method	To determine the effectiveness of administering GnRH agonists for three to six months prior to IVF or ICSI in women with endometriosis .
Method	We used computer searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , MEDLINE , EMBASE , the National Research Register ( NRR ) and the MDSG Specialised Register of controlled trials .
Method	We handsearched proceedings of annual meetings of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine ( ASRM ) and the European Society for Human Reproduction and Embryology ( ESHRE ) .
Method	We reviewed lists of references in original research and review articles .
Method	We contacted experts in various countries to identify unpublished trials .
Method	We included randomised controlled trials using any GnRH agonist prior to IVF or ICSI to treat women with any degree of endometriosis diagnosed by laparoscopy or laparotomy DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS
Method	Two independent review authors abstracted data ( HNS and JGV ) .
Method	We sent e-mails to investigators to seek additional information .
Method	We assessed the validity of each study using the methods suggested in the Cochrane Handbook .
Method	The data were checked by the third review author ( SD ) and any disagreement was resolved by arbitration with the fourth review author ( AA ) .
Method	We generated 2 x 2 tables for principal outcome measures .
Method	The Peto-modified Mantel-Haenszel technique was used to calculate odds ratios ( OR ) and assess statistical heterogeneity between studies .
Method	Three randomised controlled trials ( with 165 women ) were included .
Result	The live birth rate per woman was significantly higher in women receiving the GnRH agonist compared to the control group ( OR 9.19 , 95 % CI 1.08 to 78.22 ) .
Result	However , this was based on one trial reporting `` viable pregnancy '' only .
Result	The clinical pregnancy rate per woman was also significantly higher ( three studies : OR 4.28 , 95 % CI 2.00 to 9.15 ) .
Result	The information on miscarriage rates came from two trials with high heterogeneity and , therefore , results of the meta-analysis were doubtful .
Result	The included studies provided insufficient data to investigate the effects of administration of GnRH agonists on multiple or ectopic pregnancies , fetal abnormalities or other complications .
Result	The administration of GnRH agonists for a period of three to six months prior to IVF or ICSI in women with endometriosis increases the odds of clinical pregnancy by fourfold .
Result	Data regarding adverse effects of this therapy on the mother or fetus are not available at present .

Method	Key pecking of pigeons was maintained under a four-component multiple fixed-interval schedule with values of 1-min , 3-min , 5-min and 10-min .
Method	Each schedule value was correlated with a different key color , each of which controlled distinctively different performances .
Method	This schedule generated a range of response rates both within and across the different interval components that permitted a direct comparison of drug effects on local and overall rates of responding .
Result	d-Amphetamine , cocaine , imipramine and pentobarbital all increased low local response rates at doses that did not affect or decreased higher rates within each fixed interval .
Result	Similar effects were obtained when different overall rates of responding were analyzed except that imipramine and pentobarbital also increased the highest overall rates occurring under the 1-min schedule .

Method	Cluster-analytic techniques were used to categorize coping strategies ( CS ) measured by the Ways of Coping -- Revised Scale , and locus of control ( LOC ) beliefs measured by the Multidimensional Health Locus of Control Scale in 53 male traumatically brain-inju
Result	A cluster characterized by comparatively higher use of self-controlling and positive reappraisal CS and lower external LOC was associated with significantly lower mood disturbance and physical difficulties and a trend to be less depressed .
Result	The age of the neurologically injured patient and Taylor 's ( 1983 ) cognitive adaptation theory may be important aspects of recovery from TBI and other neurological conditions .

Background	A 47-year-old woman presented with a rare case of epidural hematoma of the clivus .
Background	The patient had bilateral occipital condyle fractures ( a comminuted fracture on the right side , an avulsion fracture on left side and a lower clivus fracture ) .
Background	On admission the patient was tetraparetic with left abducens palsy .
Background	Preoperative imaging showed no atlanto-axial or occipito-atlantal dislocation .
Method	The patient was operated with a posterior approach .
Method	An occipital craniectomy with C1 laminectomy was achieved without atlanto-occipital fusion .
Result	Two years after the trauma , the patient had mild left hemiparesis but was able to walk normally .
Result	Head motion was normal , but just mildly decreased by pain in flexion and extension .
Result	Imaging control did not show any occipito-atlantal instability .
Result	We describe the imaging features allowing precise diagnosis and discuss the management of a rare entity : bilateral occipital condyle fractures and epidural hematoma of the clivus .

Method	Tumor tissues from 29 women with borderline or malignant epithelial ovarian tumors were examined for the presence of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) DNA by the polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) .
Method	The PCR analysis used a set of consensus primers that are complementary to highly conserved sequences in the genital HPVs ( M. M. Manos , Y. Ting , D. K. Wright , A. J. Lewis , T. R. Broker , and S. M. Wolinsky , Cancer Cells 7 , 209-214 , 1989 ) .
Method	Amplification products were detected by Southern hybridization with consensus oligonucleotide probes .
Result	A total of 70 paraffin-embedded tissue sections from ovarian carcinomas were tested and we did not detect genital-type HPV DNA sequences in any of these specimens .
Result	However , all of the tissue specimens were considered adequate for PCR analysis because a human cellular gene ( beta-globin ) was successfully amplified in each tissue specimen .
Result	In addition , HPV 16 DNA was found in a concurrent invasive squamous-cell carcinoma of the cervix from one ovarian cancer patient , indicating that the PCR was able to detect HPV in the lower genital tract of this individual .
Result	We conclude that there is no association between infection with the most common genital HPVs and borderline and malignant epithelial ovarian tumors .

Background	The focus on quality and accountability in healthcare has dramatically changed the manner in which clinical services are delivered .
Background	The traditional reliance on structural aspects of healthcare delivery has largely given way to a system that closely monitors processes and measures outcomes .
Background	Outcomes measurement has intuitive appeal because of its objectivity , global perspective on healthcare , and input from patients , providers , insurers , and payers in the healthcare delivery chain .
Background	Nevertheless , outcomes measures are destined to be closely linked to healthcare processes .
Background	Data from clinical investigations , interpreted using rigorously developed , evidence-based methodologies , must be used to provide feedback to those designing clinical processes and to continuously improve the quality of healthcare .
Background	As outcomes data will be crucial in evaluating the quality of services provided by managed care organizations in relation to their costs , it is imperative that osteopathic physicians become conversant with the history and evolution of outcomes measurement

Method	A randomised , comparative prospective clinical trial was planned to compare the early response to different rehabilitation methods for adhesive capsulitis taking into consideration the clinical efficacy and the cost effectiveness of the methods .
Method	Forty patients with adhesive capsulitis were randomised into two treatment groups .
Method	The first group ( CYR ) received the Cyriax approach of deep friction massage and mobilisation exercises three times weekly .
Method	The second group ( PT ) had daily physical therapy including hot pack and short wave diathermy application .
Method	Both groups concluded their treatments with stretching exercises and were also instructed to a daily home exercise program .
Method	The primary end point of the study was to reach 80 % of the normal passive range of motion ( ROM ) of the shoulder in all planes within a period of two weeks .
Method	Secondary end points were the overall ROM and pain response ( spontaneous pain , night pain and pain with motion ) to each treatment .
Result	19 patients in the CYR group ( 95 % ) and 13 patients in the PT group ( 65 % ) reached sufficient ROM at the end of the second week ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	The improvement in shoulder flexion , inner and outer rotation values and the decrease in pain with motion were significantly better in the CYR group after the first week of treatment .
Result	The Cyriax method of rehabilitation provides a faster and better response than the conventional physical therapy methods in the early phase of treatment in adhesive capsulitis .
Result	The method is non-invasive , effective and requires fewer hospital visits for a sufficient early response .

Background	Despite an acknowledgement of the impact of serious mental disorders on informal caregivers , we still know little about how to best help them .
Method	The aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness of a two-phased carers ' intervention comprising family sessions followed by relatives ' groups .
Method	This intervention was designed to be of ` intermediate ' intensity , that is , one lying between brief educational programmes and long-term family psychoeducational treatments .
Method	An exploratory randomised controlled trial was conducted comparing the experimental support programme with ` standard ' care .
Method	All carers of patients with a psychotic disorder from a defined population were approached .
Method	Outcome measures were based on a ` stress-appraisal-coping ' model of caregiving .
Result	Despite concerted attempts to engage carers , only 42 % participated in the study .
Result	The carers ' programme did not offer any significant advantage on any of the outcome measures : psychological morbidity , negative appraisal , coping or social support .
Result	The severity of caregiving difficulties decreased over the study period for the group as a whole .
Result	There is still uncertainty about the most effective interventions for carers .
Result	Meeting ` needs ' may not improve caregiver distress .

Method	The purpose of this study was to investigate changes in lumbar flexion together with the pattern and level of muscle activity of selected erector spinae during a rowing trial.Design .
Method	Cross-sectional repeated measures design .
Background	Low back pain is a common problem in rowers .
Background	The amount of lumbar flexion occurring during rowing might influence the possibility of injury .
Method	Sixteen young adult school rowers participated in the study .
Method	Changes in lumbar flexion and muscle activity were recorded across the drive phase , at three stages of an ergometer based rowing trial .
Method	Lumbar flexion was calculated by computerised motion analysis of surface markers attached to the spinous processes of L1 and S1 .
Method	Surface electromyography techniques were used to examine the magnitude of activity from three erector spinae muscles .
Method	The median frequency of the electromyographic signal was examined to quantify fatigue in the erector spinae muscles during isometric maximal effort muscle activation prior to and after the rowing trial .
Result	Lumbar flexion increased significantly ( P < 0.05 ) during the rowing trial , as did the magnitude of electromyographic activity from sites over the lumbar multifidus , iliocostalis lumborum and longissimus thoracis muscles .
Result	The median frequency decreased significantly ( P < 0.05 ) in each muscle examined .
Result	The findings showed that rowers attain relatively high levels of lumbar flexion during the rowing stroke , and these levels are increased during the course of the rowing trial .
Result	Indirect evidence of muscle fatigue in erector spinae muscles was also apparent , and this observation may in part be responsible for the increased levels of lumbar flexion observed .
Result	Excessive lumbar flexion may influence the potential for injury to spinal structures .
Result	An awareness of increased lumbar flexion and muscle fatigue in the erector spinae muscles may be important for injury prevention programs for rowers .

Background	Osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures ( VCFs ) are associated with a series of clinical consequences leading to increased morbidity and even mortality .
Background	Early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention is desirable in order to remobilise patients and prevent further bone loss .
Background	Not all fractures are , however , sufficiently treatable by conservative measures .
Background	Here , vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty may provide immediate pain relief by minimally invasive fracture stabilisation .
Result	In cases of acute fractures , kyphoplasty has the potential to reduce kyphosis and restore the normal sagittal alignment of the spine .
Result	The complex nature of systemic osteoporosis , coupled with the intricate biomechanics of vertebral fractures , leads to a clinical setting which is ideally treated interdisciplinarily by the rheumatologist and spine surgeon .

Method	Our experience with intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 in spinal cord injured patients with neurogenic erectile dysfunction included 15 men .
Result	They received testing dosage starting from 5 micrograms with increasing dosage ( maximum 20 micrograms ) to achieve a rigid erection of Schramek 's grade 5 and lasting for at least 20 min .
Result	All of them had achieved functional erection adequate for coitus after treatment except one patient who had been proved to have venogenic impotence .
Result	We found that intracavernous injection of prostaglandin E1 had significantly improved the erectile condition .
Result	No systemic side effect or any other complication was noted except that pain at the injection site was complained of in two patients with incomplete lesion .

Method	In this study , telemedicine and the use of advanced telemedicine technologies are explained .
Background	Telemedicine is the use of modern telecommunications and information technologies for the provision of clinical care to individuals at a distance , and transmission of information to provide that care .
Background	Telemedicine can be used for decision making , remote sensing , and collaborative arrangements for the real-time management of patients at a distance .
Background	The use of telecommunications and information technologies in providing health services is determined .
Background	Telemedicine is described as combination of topics from the fields of telecommunication , medicine , and informatics .
Background	The medical systems infrastructure consisting of the equipment and processes used to acquire and present clinical information and to store and retrieve data are explained in details .

Background	The aim of this study was to evaluate the relationship of patient care variables to survival and functional outcome in the pediatric population with traumatic brain injury .
Method	Retrospective chart review .
Method	A 16-bed pediatric critical care unit in an academic community children 's hospital .
Method	A total of 320 consecutive pediatric patients with traumatic brain injuries admitted to our pediatric critical care unit between 1992 and 1996 .
Method	Patients were managed using our standard traumatic brain injury protocol .
Method	A total of 230 patient variables encompassing demographic data , prehospital , emergency department , and pediatric critical care unit care were recorded .
Result	A total of 79 patients were severely injured , with admitting Glasgow Coma Scale scores of < or = 10 .
Result	There were 18 deaths .
Result	Only two patients survived without cognition .
Result	Ninety-five of 302 survivors required inpatient rehabilitation .
Result	Of these , 73 were old enough to be compared using FIMTM scores .
Result	At the time of discharge from rehabilitation , 52 patients ( 71 % ) were functioning independently , 20 ( 27 % ) were moderately dependent , and one patient was completely dependent .
Result	Analysis of variables with respect to survival revealed that an inability to maintain a cerebral perfusion pressure of > or = 50 mm Hg on the first pediatric critical care unit day ( p = .0002 ) and the presence of bradycardia in the emergency department ( p =
Result	By using the regression equation generated from this model , we could correctly identify survivors and nonsurvivors with a predictive value of 94 % .
Result	The ability to maintain a cerebral perfusion pressure of > or = 50 mm Hg was the single most important predictor of traumatic brain injury survival in this study .
Result	This suggests that monitoring and optimizing cerebral perfusion pressure is critical to the management of these patients .
Result	The relationship between cognitive outcome and therapeutic interventions used to optimize cerebral perfusion pressure is unclear and requires further evaluation in a large prospective study .

Background	Fish contain essential long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , particularly docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , an omega-3 ( or n-3 ) PUFA , but are also the main source of exposure to methylmercury ( MeHg ) , a potent developmental neurotoxicant .
Background	Since n-3 PUFAs support neural development and function , benefits deriving from a diet rich in n-3s have been hypothesized to protect against deleterious effects of gestational MeHg exposure .
Method	To determine whether protection occurs at the behavioral level , female Long-Evans rats were exposed , in utero , to 0 , 0.5 , or 5ppm of Hg as MeHg via drinking water , approximating exposures of 0 , 40 , and 400 microgHg/kg/day and producing 0 , 0.29 , and 5.50 pp
Method	They also received pre - and postnatal exposure to one of two diets , both based on the AIN-93 semipurified formulation .
Method	A `` fish-oil '' diet was high in , and a `` coconut-oil '' diet was devoid of , DHA .
Method	Diets were approximately equal in alpha-linolenic acid and n-6 PUFAs .
Method	As adults , the rats were first assessed with a spatial discrimination reversal ( SDR ) procedure and later with a visual ( nonspatial ) discrimination reversal ( VDR ) procedure .
Result	MeHg increased the number of errors to criterion for both SDR and VDR during the first reversal , but effects were smaller or non-existent on the original discrimination and on later reversals .
Result	No such MeHg-related deficits were seen when the rats were retested on SDR after 2 years of age .
Result	These results are consistent with previous reports and hypotheses that gestational MeHg exposure produces perseverative responding .
Result	No interactions between diet and MeHg were found , suggesting that n-3 PUFAs do not guard against these behavioral effects .
Result	Brain Hg concentrations did not differ between the diets , either .
Result	In geriatric rats , failures to respond were less common and response latencies were shorter for rats fed the fish-oil diet , suggesting that exposure to a diet rich in n-3s may lessen the impact of age-related declines in response initiation .

Background	The red flags raised by the 1990 clinical reports of increased suicidality associated with treatment with the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) fluoxetine were followed by anecdotal reports of similar symptoms with other antidepressants of the
Background	Recent discussions by Healy have argued in favour of a suicidogenic potential of the SSRIs .
Background	This paper reviews the relevant literature addressing the epidemiological data of Western populations and the data accumulated from clinical trial databases in several countries .
Result	The evidence currently available does not support the hypothesis that antidepressants or , more specifically , SSRIs cause increased suicidality in patients with depression , nor do they appear to do so in patients treated with these drugs for other reasons .

Background	The execution of sequential arm movements is critical to activities of daily living such as eating and grooming .
Background	It is known that movement sequences are bradykinetic in people with Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) and that antiparkinson medications improve the speed of movement sequences .
Background	However , it is unclear how muscle activity is modulated during sequential movements and what effect antiparkinson medications have on muscle modulation .
Method	We studied subjects with PD and age - and gender-matched control subjects making sequential reaching movements .
Method	Subjects with PD were tested before and after their morning dose of antiparkinson medications ( levodopa and/or dopamine agonists ) .
Method	We examined the effect of antiparkinson medications on the modulation of muscle activity ( i.e. , the ability to activate and inhibit each muscle throughout the course of a sequence ) .
Result	Results showed that the group with PD , before medication , moved more slowly and modulated muscle activity poorly compared to the control group .
Result	Antiparkinson medications improved movement speed as expected , although sequential movements remained slower than normal even after medication .
Result	Medication improved the ability to activate agonist muscle activity but did not improve the ability to inhibit antagonist activity .
Result	Instead , antagonist activity was also increased , resulting in minimal improvements in muscle modulation during sequential reaching movements .

Method	Liquid crystal thermography was used to determine low back skin temperature patterns in 62 patients hospitalized for low back pain and 22 college volunteers with no previous history of back pain .
Method	The patients were separated into four groups according to their diagnoses at discharge patients with 1 ) degenerative discogenic lesions , 2 ) acquired lesions , 3 ) congenital and developmental lesions , 4 ) back pain resulting from unknown causes .
Result	No significant differences were found between the average equilibrated thermogram temperatures of the control subjects ( 32.4 + / - 0.5 degrees C ) and patient groups .
Result	However , the temperature gradients found on the thermograms of patients with discogenic lesions ( 3.1 + / - 0.6 degrees C ) and acquired lesions ( 3.1 + / - 1.0 degrees C ) were significantly greater ( p less than .05 ) than those of the pain-free subjects ( 2.5 + / -
Result	Tenderness to palpation was associated with elevated skin temperatures in 80 percent of the patients studied .
Result	This study suggests that liquid crystal thermography may be a potentially useful tool for localizing soft tissue trauma in patients with low back pain .

Method	In the present study , chronic constrictive injury ( CCI model ) of the sciatic nerve or tight ligation of L5 and L6 spinal nerves ( Chung model ) produced both dynamic and static components of mechanical allodynia in rats .
Method	The two responses were detected , respectively , by lightly stroking the hind paw with cotton wool or application of pressure using von Frey hairs .
Result	Animals with spinal nerve ligation developed both types of responses at a faster rate compared to animals with the CCI .
Result	Morphine ( 1-3 mg/kg , s.c. ) dose-dependently blocked static but not dynamic allodynia .
Result	In contrast , pregabalin ( previously S-isobutylgaba and CI-1008 ) dose-dependently ( 3-30 mg/kg , p.o. ) blocked both types of allodynia .
Result	In CCI animals , two administrations of capsaicin ( 100 microg/50 microl ) into the plantar surface of the ipsilateral paw at 1-h intervals blocked the maintenance of thermal hyperalgesia without affecting either static or dynamic allodynia .
Result	The similar administration of a further two doses of capsaicin into the same animals blocked the maintenance of static allodynia without affecting the dynamic response .
Result	These data indicate that thermal hyperalgesia , static and dynamic allodynia are respectively signalled by C - , Adelta - and Abeta/capsaicin insensitive Adelta - primary sensory neurones .
Result	It is suggested that pregabalin possesses a superior antiallodynic profile than morphine and may represent a novel class of therapeutic agents for the treatment of neuropathic pain .

Background	The objective of this study was to examine alteration in head repositioning accuracy ( HRA ) , range of motion , and pain intensity in patients with chronic cervical pain syndrome without a history of cervical trauma .
Method	The study was a prospective , randomized , controlled trial .
Method	Forty-one patients with chronic cervical pain were randomly assigned to either a control group or a chiropractic treatment group .
Method	All patients were clinically examined , given general information on cervical pain , and provided with training instructions based on the clinical evaluation .
Method	The treatment included sessions with high-velocity and low-amplitude manipulation , proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation , ischemic compression of myofascial trigger points , and spinal rehabilitation exercises aiming to normalize cervical range of moti
Method	Subjective pain intensity , cervical kinesthetic sensibility , and CROM were recorded before and after the study period .
Result	There was no difference between the treatment patients and the control subjects at the beginning with regard to age , sex , subjective pain intensity , range of motion , and HRA .
Result	At the 5-week follow-up , the treatment patients showed significant reductions in pain and improvement of all HRA aspects measured whereas the control subjects did not show any reduction in pain and improvement in only one HRA aspect .
Result	No significant difference was detected in CROM .
Result	The results of this study suggest that chiropractic care can be effective in influencing the complex process of proprioceptive sensibility and pain of cervical origin .
Result	Short , specific chiropractic treatment programs with proper patient information may alter the course of chronic cervical pain .

Background	Percutaneously inserted spinal epidural neurostimulation has been derived as a simplified safe alternative to surgically implanted , dorsal column stimulation that is used in the effective treatment and control of spasticity and intractable pain .
Method	Twenty-seven tissue specimens from fifteen patients having had percutaneous epidural neurostimulation systems implanted were studied with the aid of light microscopy .
Method	The biopsies from tissues around the cables , around the receivers , and at the actual site of epidural stimulation ( at the metallic contact ) , were studied at time intervals varying from one week to two years postimplantation .
Result	Long-term results , which only show dense fibrous encapsulation of the cables and the receiver , substantiate clinical belief regarding the `` histological safety '' of this electronic modality .

Background	To describe the anaesthetic management and report the incidence of PDPH in three parturients who had experienced accidental dural puncture during labour and the subsequent deliberate intrathecal insertion of an epidural catheter .
Method	Inadvertent dural puncture with a 16-gauge Tuohy needle occurred during the first stage of labour at 3-4 cm cervical dilatation in all three women .
Method	The 20-gauge epidural catheter was immediately inserted into the subarachnoid space after accidental dural penetration .
Method	Intermittent intrathecal injections of lidocaine or bupivacaine with fentanyl were administered to provide analgesia during labour and delivery .
Result	Two of the women had spontaneous vaginal deliveries , whereas Caesarean section was performed in one case due to acute fetal distress during the second stage of labour .
Result	The intrathecal catheter was left in-situ for 13-19 hr after delivery and the women were questioned daily for symptoms of PDPH .
Result	None of the three women developed PDPH after dural puncture and intrathecal catheterisation with the epidural catheter .
Result	Immediate intrathecal insertion of the epidural catheter after accidental dural puncture during labour proved to be an effective prophylactic technique to prevent PDPH in these three parturients .

Background	The `` Standards , Options and Recommendations '' ( SOR ) project , started in 1993 , is a collaboration between the National Federation of Comprehensive Cancer Centres ( FNCLCC ) , the 20 French Cancer Centers and specialists from French Public Universitie
Background	The main objective is the development of clinical practice guidelines to improve the quality of health care and outcome for cancer patients .
Method	The methodology is based on literature review and critical appraisal by a multidisciplinary group of experts , with feedback from specialists in cancer care delivery .
Method	To develop clinical practice guidelines according to the definitions of the Standards , Options and Recommendations project for nutritional support in adult patients with advanced or terminal cancer .
Method	Data were identified by searching Medline , web sites and using the personal reference lists of members of the expert groups .
Method	Once the guidelines were defined , the document was submitted for review to 95 independent reviewers .
Result	The main recommendations for nutritional support in adult patients with advanced or terminal cancer are : 1 ) Palliative care has been defined in a consensual way and is governed by the law ( standard ) .
Result	Nutritional support is a palliative care which aim is to maintain and restore the `` well-being '' of the patient ( standard ) .
Result	2 ) Digestive symptoms and nutritional troubles are frequently noted in patients with advanced or terminal cancer ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Method	Karnofsky index ( KPS ) and performance status ( PS ) are functional scores with a prognostic value and have to be used ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Method	3 )
Result	Anorexia has a bad predictive value in patients with advanced or terminal cancer ( standard , level of evidence B2 ) .
Method	4 )
Method	In France , patients with advanced or terminal cancer are referred to medical institutions , palliative care units or remained at home ( standard ) .
Result	Patients need a multidisciplinary follow-up ( standard ) .
Result	An active participation of patients and/or their family circle is very important and physicians have to pay attention for their opinions ( standard ) .
Result	5 ) Dietetic counseling can help patients to improve their alimentation and its drawbacks ( standard ) .
Result	6 ) Palliative nutritional care often includes medicinal treatments ( standard ) .
Result	7 ) Artificial nutrition can slow down nutritional degradation , avoid dehydration and improve quality of life in patients with advanced stage cancer ( especially head and neck cancer for enteral nutrition and digestive occlusions for parenteral nutrition ) a
Result	9 ) The assessment of nutritional care in patients with advanced or terminal cancer has to include functional scores measurement , quality of life and satisfaction degree of the patient and/or their family ( standard , expert agreement ) .

Background	To evaluate the reliability and validity of a self-report FIM ( FIM-SR ) in two samples of adults with disabilities .
Method	Participants in a clinical trial of amitriptyline for pain ( n = 84 with spinal cord injury [ SCI ] , n = 38 with amputation ) provided responses to the study measures via telephone interview .
Method	Reliability was estimated using Cronbach 's alpha and test-retest correlation coefficients , and validity was examined by comparing FIM-SR scores with the Craig Handicap Assessment and Reporting Technique ( CHART ) by comparing the CHART scores between the participants with SCI and amputation , and by comparing CHART scores between subjects with different levels of SCI .
Result	In the SCI sample , the FIM-SR demonstrated adequate reliability , and correlational analyses supported the validity of the FIM-SR motor scales .
Result	In addition , the FIM-SR motor scales discriminated subjects with different diagnoses ( SCI vs. amputation ) and injury levels ( paraplegia vs. tetraplegia ) .
Result	The psychometric properties of the entire FIM-SR in the amputation sample and of the FIM-SR cognitive scales in the SCI sample were difficult to determine due to a ceiling effect in which these scale scores were skewed toward the top end of the range .
Result	The FIM-SR motor scales and total FIM-SR score are reliable and valid measures of perceived functional independence in individuals with SCI .
Result	However , all of the FIM-SR scales in the amputation sample , and the FIM-SR cognitive scales in the SCI sample , seem to be less useful measures of functioning due to subjects reporting high levels of independence .
Result	The FIM-SR should be retested in amputation samples with more variable levels of functioning .

Background	To determine the feasibility of contrast-enhanced three-dimensional ( 3D ) imaging of the prostatic vasculature using power Doppler imaging and to analyze whether semiquantitative judgments of 3D images with respect to symmetry and distribution of vascular
Method	3D power Doppler images were obtained before and after intravenous administration of 2.5 g Levovist .
Method	Subsequently , random and/or directed transrectal ultrasound ( TRUS ) - guided biopsies were performed .
Method	Vascular images were analyzed by two experts .
Method	Prostate vasculature was judged with respect to symmetry and vessel distribution using a ( scale ) grading system .
Method	Eighteen patients with a suspicion of prostate cancer either because of an elevated prostate-specific antigen ( greater than 4.0 ng/mL ; Tandem-R-assay ) or an abnormal digital rectal examination were included in the study .
Result	Prostate cancer was detected in 13 patients .
Result	Vascular anatomy was judged abnormal in unenhanced images in 6 cases , of which 5 proved malignant .
Result	Enhanced images were considered suspicious for malignancy in 12 cases , including 1 benign and 11 malignant biopsy results .
Result	Sensitivity of enhanced images was 85 % ( specificity 80 % ) compared with 38 % for unenhanced images ( specificity 80 % ) and 77 % for conventional gray-scale TRUS ( specificity 60 % ) .
Result	Of 6 patients who showed no B-mode abnormalities , vascular patterns were judged abnormal in 4 cases , of which 3 were malignant .
Result	Contrast-enhanced 3D power Doppler angiography is feasible in patients with suspicion of prostate cancer who are scheduled for prostate biopsies .
Result	The sensitivity of power Doppler 3D imaging for the detection of prostate malignancy increased from 38 % ( 5 of 13 ) to 85 % ( 11 of 13 ) after administration of intravascular microbubble contrast ( Levovist ) , and specificity was found to be 80 % ( 4 of 5 ) for bot
Result	Thus , the use of Levovist when combined with the power Doppler display mode and 3D image reconstruction offers a promising new research area that might prove useful in prostate cancer detection in the future .

Background	We reviewed all pediatric cases referred for emergent/urgent therapy ( requiring treatment within 48 hours ) to identify frequency , patterns of presentation , and efficacy of therapy .
Background	We defined five categories of emergent/urgent therapy based on irradiated site and/or signs : Group I , spinal cord compression ; Group II , respiratory compromise ; Group III , infradiaphagmatic distress ; Group IV , intracranial signs ; Group V , pain .
Method	From 2/1/88 -3 / 1 / 94 , 104 children with 115 problems were referred by specialists at the Children 's Hospital of Philadelphia .
Method	Diagnosis , nature of the emergency , and response were examined .
Method	Responses were categorized as complete resolution , improvement or stabilization , and progression .
Result	The 104 children represented 12 % of referrals during the study period .
Result	The most common tumors were CNS PNET and gliomas ( 20 % ) ; and neuroblastoma ( 20 % ) .
Result	Forty-five problems occurred with newly diagnosed tumors and 70 after progression .
Result	Ninety-one episodes were managed with radiation therapy and 24 with other modalities .
Result	Patients with spinal cord/cauda equina ( n = 33 ) compression improved ( 55 % ) or stabilized ( 30 % ) .
Result	Patients with respiratory compromise from thoracic ( n = 14 ) or abdominal ( n = 5 ) disease had a response rate of 72 % .
Result	Eight patients in group III had a 66 % response .
Result	In Group IV ( n = 16 ) , 63 % had complete responses and 19 % had stabilization .
Result	Group V ( n = 15 ) patients had a complete or partial response of 93 % .
Result	Approximately 10 % of children referred for radiation therapy required emergent/urgent treatment .
Result	Eighty percent of patients achieved stabilization or showed improvement in signs and symptoms , indicating that radiotherapy is a valuable and reliable component of multimodal care in such situations .

Background	There is growing evidence that cyclic alternating pattern ( CAP ) and arousals are woven into the basic mechanisms of sleep regulation .
Method	In the present study , the overnight sleep cycles ( SC ) of 20 normal subjects were analyzed according to their stage composition , CAP rate , phase A subtypes and arousals .
Method	Individual SC were then divided into 10 normalized temporal epochs .
Method	CAP parameters and arousals were measured in each epoch and averaged in relation to the SC order .
Result	Subtypes A2 and A3 of CAP in non-rapid eye movement ( NREM ) sleep , and arousals , both in REM and NREM sleep when not coincident with a A2 or A3 phases , were lumped together as fast electroencephalographic ( EEG ) activities ( FA ) .
Method	Subtypes A1 of CAP , characterized by slow EEG activities ( SA ) , were analyzed separately .
Result	The time distribution of SA and FA was compared to the mathematical model of normal sleep structure including functions representing the homeostatic process S , the circadian process C , the ultradian process generating NREM/REM cycles and the slow wave act
Result	The relationship between SA and FA and the sleep-model components was evaluated by multiple regression analysis in which SA and FA were considered as dependent variables while the covariates were the process S , process C , SWA , REM-on and REM-off activitie
Result	Regression was highly significant ( P < 0.0001 ) for both SA and FA .
Result	SA were prevalent in the first three SC , and exhibited single or multiple peaks immediately before and in the final part of deep sleep ( stages 3 + 4 ) .
Result	The peaks of FA were delayed and prevailed during the pre-REM periods of light sleep ( stages 1 + 2 ) and during REM sleep .
Result	SA showed an exponential decline across the successive SC , according to the homeostatic process .
Result	In contrast , the distribution of FA was not influenced by the order of SC , with periodic peaks of FA occurring before the onset of REM sleep , in accordance with the REM-on switch .
Result	The dynamics of CAP and arousals during sleep can be viewed as an intermediate level between cellular activities and macroscale EEG phenomena as they reflect the decay of the homeostatic process and the interaction between REM-off and REM-on mechanisms wh

Background	To evaluate the efficacy of acupuncture as a treatment for chronic pain and secondary symptoms after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and to identify disease-specific variables associated with response to treatment .
Method	A within-subjects design consisting of a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week no-acupuncture baseline period followed by a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week treatment period and a follow-up assessment 3 months posttreatment .
Method	Medical rehabilitation research center .
Method	Twenty-two people with SCI who experienced moderate to severe pain of at least 6 months ' duration .
Method	A course of 15 acupuncture treatments was administered over a 7 ( 1/2 ) - week period .
Method	Numeric Rating Scale of pain intensity ; ratings of interference with activity , individualized symptom rating , Center for Epidemiologic Studies-Depression Scale ; Speilberger State Trait Anxiety Inventory , and General Well-Being Schedule .
Result	Ten patients ( 46 % ) showed improvement in pain intensity and pain sequelae after treatment .
Result	However , 6 patients ( 27 % ) reported an increase in pain that was still present 3 months after treatment .
Result	About 50 % of the study sample reported substantial pain relief after acupuncture treatment , suggesting that acupuncture may provide pain relief for at least a subgroup of individuals with SCI .
Result	Future research is needed to determine what part of this effect is because of acupuncture versus nonspecific effects such as placebo effects and regression to the mean .

Background	The aim of this study was to determine whether a 3-year treatment with strontium ranelate could delay the progression of spinal osteoarthritis ( OA ) .
Method	This study was a post-hoc analysis of pooled data from the Spinal Osteoporosis Therapeutic Intervention ( SOTI ) and TReatment Of Peripheral OSteoporosis ( TROPOS ) trials performed on 1105 women with osteoporosis and concomitant radiological spinal OA at bas
Method	The presence and severity of osteophytes , disc space narrowing and sclerosis in the lumbar intervertebral spaces was graded according to a validated method , and an overall OA score was calculated for each intervertebral space .
Method	Back pain ( measured on a five-point Likert scale only in SOTI ) and health-related quality of life ( SF-36 questionnaire ) were assessed at baseline and after 3 years .
Method	Patients who suffered an incident or progressive vertebral fracture during the study were excluded from the analysis .
Result	The proportion of patients with worsening overall spinal OA score was reduced by 42 % in the strontium ranelate group , compared with placebo ( RR , 0.58 ; 95 % CI , 0.42 to 0.79 ; p = 0.0005 ) .
Result	Significantly more patients in the strontium ranelate group experienced an improvement in back pain after 3 years , compared with placebo ( p = 0.03 ) , while no significant difference was observed in terms of health-related quality of life between these pati
Result	The results of this post-hoc analysis suggest that strontium ranelate could reduce the progression of the radiographic features of spinal OA and back pain in women with osteoporosis and prevalent spinal OA .

Background	We sought to determine the components of irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) clinical trials that correlate with higher levels of placebo response .
Method	We performed a systematic review of placebo-controlled trials in patients with IBS to assess which variables correlate with a higher placebo response .
Method	Placebo responses for global symptom improvement and for decreased abdominal pain were assessed .
Method	Univariate and multiple linear regression analyses were conducted .
Result	Higher rates of global improvement correlated with frequency of administration of study intervention ( r = .31 , P = .03 ) , duration of the study ( r = .28 , P = .04 ) , and overall treatment effect of the active agent being studied ( r = .33 , P = .02 ) .
Result	Higher rates of decreased abdominal pain correlated with the frequency of intervention ( r = .39 , P = .02 ) and overall treatment effect ( r = .40 , P = .01 ) , whereas lower placebo response rates correlated with year of the study ( r = -.36 , P = .03 ) , media
Result	On multivariate analysis , global improvement in the placebo group was associated significantly with intervention frequency ( P = .0079 ) , overall treatment response ( P = .0031 ) , and parallel study design ( P = .0044 ) .
Result	Decreased abdominal pain was associated significantly with frequency of intervention ( P = .0061 ) and overall treatment response ( P = .0128 ) .
Result	In IBS studies , higher placebo response rates correlated with frequency of the intervention and with overall treatment effect of the active agent being studied .
Result	In designing IBS trials , it may be possible to minimize placebo response by less frequent dosing .
Result	In treating patients with IBS , it may be possible to harness the placebo response and maximize therapeutic response rates by more frequent dosing .

Background	To assess whether losses in physical functioning are related to the natural menopause , hysterectomy , or calendar time during midlife , after adjustment for body size and smoking .
Method	A longitudinal assessment of physical functioning was conducted from 2000/01 through 2005/06 in a population-based sample of 544 women at midlife enrolled in the Michigan Bone Health and Metabolism Study .
Method	Longitudinal mixed models were used to relate menopausal status to measures of physical functioning .
Method	Perception of physical functioning was assessed with the Medical Outcomes Study Short-Form 36 questionnaire .
Method	Eight performance-based measures of physical functioning were also included .
Result	Women with hysterectomy ( with or without estrogen from ovarian conservation or exogenous replacement ) had reduced levels of functioning and greater rates of change in the 2-lb lift ( P < .005 ) , sit-to-stand ( P < .01 ) , timed stair climb ( P < .01 ) , timed
Result	Diminished functioning in postmenopausal women was observed in hand grip ( P < .005 ) , 2-lb lift ( P < .05 ) , sit-to-stand ( P < .05 ) , velocity ( P < .05 ) , and perceived physical functioning ( P < .05 ) .
Result	Based on regression analyses , there was greater loss in women with hysterectomy compared with natural menopause .
Result	Level of functioning among postmenopausal women with exogenous hormone replacement was similar to premenopausal women on eight of nine physical functioning measures .
Result	Hysterectomy , even with availability of an estrogen source , seems to be a `` risk '' state for diminishing physical function at midlife , and this may initiate a vulnerable stage for future compromised quality of life .

Background	Patients with multiple sclerosis who develop progressive disability from onset without relapses or remissions pose difficulties in diagnosis , monitoring of disease activity and treatment .
Background	There is a need to define the diagnostic criteria for this group more precisely and , in particular , to describe a comprehensive battery of investigations to exclude other conditions .
Background	The mechanisms underlying the development of disability and the role of MRI in monitoring disease activity in this clinical subgroup require elucidation , particularly in view of the lack of change on conventional imaging in the presence of continuing clin
Background	The prognosis is poor and there are currently no treatment trials for this form of the disease .

Background	Neuropathic pain is characterised by hyperexcitability within nociceptive pathways that manifests behaviourally as allodynia and hyperalgesia and remains difficult to treat with standard analgesics .
Background	However , antidepressants have shown reasonable preclinical and clinical anti-nociceptive efficacy against signs and symptoms of neuropathic pain .
Method	To ascertain whether inhibition of serotonin ( 5-HT ) and/or noradrenaline ( NA ) and/or dopamine ( DA ) re-uptake preferentially mediates superior anti-nociception in preclinical pain models .
Method	The 5-HT re-uptake inhibitor fluoxetine ( 3-30 mg/kg ) , the NA re-uptake inhibitor reboxetine ( 3-30 mg/kg ) , the dual 5-HT and NA re-uptake inhibitor venlafaxine ( 3-100 mg/kg ) and the dual DA and NA re-uptake inhibitor bupropion ( 3-30 mg/kg ) were tested afte
Result	Reboxetine and venlafaxine dose-dependently attenuated second-phase flinching in the formalin test ; fluoxetine attenuated flinching only at the highest dose tested , whereas bupropion was ineffective .
Result	In the chronic constriction injury ( CCI ) and spinal nerve ligation models of neuropathic pain , hindpaw mechanical allodynia was significantly attenuated by fluoxetine and particularly by bupropion .
Result	Reboxetine and venlafaxine were completely ineffective .
Result	In contrast , reboxetine and venlafaxine reversed thermal hyperalgesia in CCI rats , whereas bupropion and fluoxetine were either minimally effective or ineffective .
Result	Fluoxetine , reboxetine and venlafaxine transiently increased the tail-flick latency in uninjured animals .
Result	Anti-nociceptive doses of drugs had no effect on motor function .
Result	Combined re-uptake inhibition of 5-HT and NA appears to confer a greater degree of anti-nociception in animal models of experimental pain than single mechanism of action inhibitors .
Result	The selective attenuation of mechanical allodynia by bupropion suggests that the additional re-uptake of DA may further augment 5-HT/NA re-uptake mediated anti-nociception after nerve injury .

Method	A multi-center longitudinal study .
Background	To estimate the current trend in the incidence of first kidney stone among persons with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and to delineate the potential contributing factors .
Method	Twenty-one Model SCI Care Systems throughout the United States .
Method	A longitudinal cohort of 8314 subjects enrolled in the National SCI Database between 1986 and 1999 was used to estimate and compare the incidence of first kidney stone with a previous report of 5850 SCI patients injured between 1973 and 1982 .
Method	A Cox regression analysis was performed to identify risk factors for stones , including age , race , gender , severity of injury , and method of urinary drainage .
Method	These variables have been routinely collected , on a yearly basis , by the collaborating SCI centers .
Result	During the 12 years , 6 months of case ascertainment , 286 incident stone cases were documented .
Result	The risk was greatest during the first 3 months after injury ( 31 cases per 1000 person-years ) , quickly decreasing and leveling off later ( eight cases per 1000 person-years ) .
Result	It was estimated that within 10 years after injury , 7 % of persons with SCI would develop their first kidney stone .
Result	There was no evidence that the risk has changed over the past 25 years ( P = 0.96 ) .
Result	During the first year post injury only , a significantly increased risk of stones was observed in Caucasians and persons aged 45 years or older .
Result	A positive association of the severity of injury and requiring instrumentation for bladder emptying with kidney stones was found after the first year post injury .
Result	The type of urinary drainage , including indwelling , intermittent , and condom catheterization , had no significant differential effect on stone formation at either risk period .
Result	The highest risk of kidney stones is within the first few months post injury .
Result	Little progress has been made in reducing this risk .
Result	Although inability to control bladder function is an important risk factor after the first year post injury , for those who need bladder management , the type of urinary drainage does not appear to be an important factor in determining risk .

Background	An innovative stenting technique to treat a difficult case of a fusiform aneurysm of the intracranial vertebral artery ( VA ) , with restoration of the vessel lumen , is described .
Background	A 58-year-old patient experienced sudden pain in the upper cervical spine , followed by a severe headache .
Background	He underwent computed tomographic evaluation , which demonstrated subarachnoid hemorrhage in the prepontine cistern .
Background	A fusiform aneurysm of the distal right VA and critical stenosis of the left VA were detected in digital subtraction angiograms .
Background	The patient experienced a new subarachnoid hemorrhaging episode , and urgent endovascular treatment was planned .
Method	The patient underwent angioplastic and stenting procedures in the left VA , with good results .
Method	Forty-eight hours later , an endovascular procedure was performed to treat the right VA aneurysm .
Method	We decided to use a graft stent ( Jostent graft stent ; Jomed , Conroe , TX ) instead of a balloon to preserve the arterial lumen .
Result	The complete procedure was well tolerated by the patient , and he was discharged , without symptoms , 48 hours later .
Result	The patient was discharged , without neurological deficits , 48 hours after completion of the endovascular procedure , with clopidogrel ( 75 mg/d ) and aspirin ( 325 mg/d ) therapy .
Result	This treatment was discontinued after 4 weeks .
Result	According to our search of the medical literature , this is the first clinical case in which an intracranial fusiform aneurysm was permanently sealed with a graft stent .

Background	Family caregivers of U.S. servicemembers with polytraumatic injuries ( injuries to multiple body systems ) need support and information to care for their family members .
Background	Providing information to patients ` families may reduce stress and increase coping abilities .
Background	Because the field of polytrauma research is new and evidence is lacking , providers rely on traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) research to guide their practice .
Method	This article presents a narrative literature review on the information needs of families of patients with TBI .
Method	It summarizes the types of needed information , the most appropriate time to provide information , and the best approaches for providing information .
Result	Future research on information needs is critical if polytrauma rehabilitation providers are to effectively support families in their caregiving roles .
Result	Such research likely will benefit caregivers of patients with polytrauma who acquire their injuries as civilians , as well .
Result	Research gaps are identified with regard to the information needs of families of patients with TBI ; these gaps also are applicable to polytrauma caregivers .
Result	Additional research areas are highlighted in light of the new polytrauma population .

Background	This study investigated the effect of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) on time - , event - , and activity-based prospective memory using a laboratory paradigm developed in the literature on ageing ( Einstein , McDaniel , Richardson , Guynn , & Cunfer , 1995 ) .
Method	The participants were 12 individuals with severe long-term TBI and 12 community controls .
Method	Participants were asked to answer general-knowledge questions on a computer for two sessions .
Method	The time - and event-based tasks were embedded in this filler activity .
Method	Participants were also required to carry out activity-based actions at the end of the two sessions .
Result	Participants with TBI performed significantly worse than did controls on all three prospective-memory tasks , indicating that TBI affects not only retrospective but also prospective memory .

Background	Patients with myocardial hibernation have reversible left ventricular dysfunction after revascularization .
Background	Viability testing can identify those patients whose left ventricular dysfunction is primarily due to hibernation rather than scar .
Result	Patients with a substantial amount of hibernating myocardium seem to have a better outcome with revascularization than medical therapy .
Result	Patients with poor viability do worse after revascularization than patients with good viability .

Background	Opioids are commonly used for pain relief clinically and reduce hyperalgesia in most animal models .
Background	Two injections of acidic saline into one gastrocnemius muscle 5 days apart produce a long-lasting bilateral hyperalgesia without associated tissue damage .
Method	The current study was undertaken to assess the effects of opioid agonists on mechanical hyperalgesia induced by repeated intramuscular injections of acid .
Method	Morphine ( mu-agonist ) , [ D-Ala ( 2 ) , N-Me-Phe ( 4 ) , Gly-ol ( 5 ) ] - enkephalin ( mu-agonist ; DAMGO ) , 4 - [ ( ( alpha ) R ) - alpha - ( ( 2S ,5 R ) -4 - allyl-2 ,5 - dimethyl-1-piperazinyl ) -3 - methoxybenzyl ] - N,N-diethylbenzamide ( delta-agonist ; SNC80 ) , or ( 1S-trans ) -3,4 - dichloro-N-methyl-N - [ 2
Method	Mechanical hyperalgesia was assessed by measuring the withdrawal thresholds to mechanical stimuli ( von Frey filaments ) before the first and second intramuscular injection , 24 h after the second intramuscular injection , and for 1 h after administration of the opioid agonist or vehicle .
Result	Morphine , DAMGO , and SNC80 dose dependently increased the mechanical withdrawal threshold back toward baseline responses .
Result	The reduction in hyperalgesia produced by morphine and DAMGO was prevented by H-D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH ( 2 ) ( CTAP ) and that of SNC80 was prevented by naltrindole .
Result	U50 ,488 had no effect on the decreased mechanical withdrawal thresholds .
Result	Thus , activation of mu - and delta - , but not kappa - , opioid receptors in the spinal cord reduces mechanical hyperalgesia following repeated intramuscular injection of acid , thus validating the use of this new model of chronic muscle pain .

Background	Hemorrhoidal disease is a common pathology in patients with chronic spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
Method	We describe our experience with the primary approach to this problem at the Proctology Division of the Sheba Medical Center .
Method	We treated 29 patients ( 26 men ) with paraplegia due to SCI between 1995 and 1999 .
Method	The mean age was 49 years ( range , 22-74 years ) .
Method	All patients had hemorrhoids in stages ranging between II and IV .
Method	Main complaints were rectal bleeding ( 83 % ) , difficulties in evacuation ( 38 % ) and discomfort or pain ( 28 % ) .
Method	Eleven patients ( 38 % ) were treated conservatively ( e. g. diet , hygiene and laxatives ) , while 18 patients ( 62 % ) underwent either banding or sclerotherapy of hemorrhoids or both .
Result	No major complication were observed .
Result	In 28 of 29 patients ( 96 % ) , there was a significant reduction or cessation of bleeding and/or relief of symptoms ; one patient ( 3 % ) required hemorrhoidectomy .
Result	Of the 28 successful treatments , 16 ( 57 % ) had partial reduction of bleeding or relief of symptoms , while in 12 ( 43 % ) response was complete .
Result	Of those who were treated conservatively , 9 ( 82 % ) had partial and 2 ( 18 % ) had complete relief of symptoms .
Result	Of those who had banding/sclerotherapy , 7 ( 41 % ) had partial and 10 ( 59 % ) had complete relief .
Result	We also examined the effect of perianal sensation on the treatment outcome .
Result	Of 16 patients with complete anesthesia , 11 ( 69 % ) had partial and 5 ( 31 % ) had complete relief , whereas of the 12 patients with preserved sensation , 5 ( 42 % ) had partial and 7 ( 58 % ) had complete relief .
Result	In conclusion , the approach of banding or sclerotherapy of hemorrhoids in SCI patients is safe and effective .
Result	When sensation of the perianal region is preserved , the outcome seems to be better .
Result	The cause of SCI has no impact on the treatment results .
Result	There was no difference in the outcome of treatment between patients with stage II and stage III hemorrhoids ; patients with stage IV hemorrhoids seem to do worse than those with stages II and III .

Background	Previous studies have retrospectively reported the positive effects of percutaneous vertebroplasty .
Background	The purpose of our study was to evaluate prospectively the effects of vertebroplasty on mobility , analgesic use , pain , and SF-36 ( short-form 36-item ) scales for patients with painful vertebral compression fractures that are refractory to medical therapy .
Method	We prospectively followed 167 patients who received 207 vertebroplasty treatment sessions for stabilization of 264 symptomatic vertebral compression fractures between August 1999 and January 2003 .
Method	The average age of patients was 74.6 years ( SD = 12.2 years ) , and 76 % were women .
Method	Pre - and postprocedural measurements of pain , mobility , analgesic use , and SF-36 scales were compared at 1 month after the procedure and between 6 months and 3 years after the procedure with the SF-36 scales .
Result	Respective pre - and post-treatment pain scores were 8.71 ( SE = 0.1 ) and 2.77 ( SE = 0.18 ; P < .00001 ) .
Result	Respective pre - and post-treatment analgesic use scores were 2.93 ( SE = 0.9 ) and 1.64 ( SE = 0.09 ; P < .00001 ) .
Result	Respective pre - and post-treatment activity levels were 2.66 ( SE = 0.1 ) and 1.64 ( SE = 0.11 ; P < .00001 ) .
Result	There was a statistically significant improvement on nine of 10 SF-36 scales ( P < .001 ) after 1 month and on eight of 10 SF-36 scales ( P < .02 ) at long-term follow-up .
Result	Percutaneous vertebroplasty offers statistically significant benefits in decreasing pain , decreasing use of analgesics , and increasing mobility in appropriately selected patients .
Result	Percutaneous vertebroplasty also offers a statistically significant benefit in most SF-36 scales at both short - and long-term follow-up .

Background	To compare the efficacy of two clinically accepted methods of progesterone supplementation during IVF .
Method	Prospective randomized trial .
Method	A university-based IVF program .
Method	Three hundred fourteen stimulated IVF cycles between January 1993 and October 1994 .
Method	Patients were assigned to one of two luteal phase progesterone regimens by a random permuted block design .
Method	In protocol A , 12.5 mg of IM progesterone was given 12 hours before oocyte retrieval ; in protocol B , 25 mg of IM progesterone was given on the day of oocyte retrieval .
Method	Main Outcome Measure ( s ) Clinical pregnancy .
Result	Patient demographic characteristics , including age , diagnosis , number of oocytes retrieved and fertilized , and number of embryos transferred , were not different between the two groups .
Result	There was no difference in the rate of cycle cancellation between the groups .
Result	One hundred forty ETs were performed in patients assigned to protocol A and 142 in patients assigned to protocol B.
Result	The clinical pregnancy rate in group A was 12.9 % compared with 24.6 % in group B. CONCLUSION ( S ) : The administration of progesterone before oocyte retrieval is associated with a lower pregnancy rate than the administration of progesterone after oocyte retri

Method	Although the bladder neck is elevated during a pelvic floor muscle ( PFM ) contraction , it descends during straining .
Background	This study aimed to investigate the relationship between bladder neck displacement , electromyography ( EMG ) activity of the pelvic floor and abdominal muscles and intra-abdominal pressure ( IAP ) during different pelvic floor and abdominal contractions .
Method	Nine women without PFM dysfunction performed maximal , gentle and moderate PFM contractions , maximal and gentle transversus abdominis ( TrA ) contractions , bracing , Valsalva and head lift .
Method	Bladder neck position was assessed with perineal ultrasound .
Method	PFM and abdominal muscle activities were recorded with a vaginal probe and fine-wire electrodes , respectively .
Method	IAP was recorded with a rectal balloon .
Result	Bladder neck elevation only occurred during PFM and TrA contractions .
Result	PFM EMG and IAP increased during all tasks from 0.5 ( gentle TrA ) to 45.7 cmH ( 2 ) O ( maximal Valsalva ) .
Result	Bladder neck elevation was only observed when the activity of PFM EMG was high relative to the IAP increase .

Background	Epidemiological studies show a markedly increased risk of cerebral palsy following the combined exposure of infection and birth asphyxia .
Background	However , the underlying mechanisms of this increased vulnerability remain unclear .
Method	We have examined the effects of a low dose of bacterial endotoxin on hypoxic -- ischaemic injury in the immature brain of rats .
Method	Bacterial endotoxin ( lipopolysaccharide 0.3 mg/kg ) was administered to 7-day-old rats 4 h prior to unilateral hypoxia -- ischaemia and the neurological outcome was determined 3 days later .
Method	Rectal temperature and cerebral blood flow was measured during the study and the expression of CD14 and toll-like receptor-4 mRNA in the brain was examined .
Result	We found that a low dose of endotoxin dramatically sensitizes the immature brain to injury and induces cerebral infarction in response to short periods of hypoxia -- ischaemia that by themselves caused no or little injury .
Result	This effect could not be explained by a reduction in cerebral blood flow or hyperthermia .
Result	In association with the sensitization of injury we found an altered expression of CD14 mRNA and toll-like receptor-4 mRNA in the brain .
Result	These results suggest that the innate immune system may be involved in the vulnerability of the immature brain following the combination of infection and hypoxia -- ischaemia .

Background	Ursodeoxycholic acid possesses choleretic and cytoprotective properties and in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) it is used to treat the hepatobiliary symptoms of the disease .
Method	This study investigated the effects of this bile acid on the transport function of the small intestine in normal and CF mice .
Method	The effects of ursodeoxycholic acid were monitored as changes in short-circuit current ( SCC ) in stripped sheets of small intestine from normal ( Swiss MF1 ) and transgenic CF ( Cftr ( tm2Cam ) ) mice .
Method	In ileal sheets from Swiss MF1 mice , mucosal ursodeoxycholic acid caused a biphasic increase in SCC .
Method	The first phase was reduced by lowering the mucosal Na + concentration , while the second phase was inhibited by ( Cl - ) - free conditions , serosal furosemide or mucosal diphenylamine-2-carboxylic acid ( DPC ) , suggesting an initial Na + - dependent bile acid absorp
Method	Serosal application of ursodeoxycholic acid to the ileum and mucosal or serosal application to the mid-intestine and jejunum elicited a secretory response only .
Result	Secretion was Ca2 + - dependent , but did not involve neural mechanisms .
Result	Mucosal mast cells , histamine and serotonin ( 5-HT ) were implicated in the secretory response .
Result	Responses in tissues from transgenic wild-type mice were similar to those obtained with Swiss MF1 mice , but the secretory response to mucosal or serosal application of the bile acid was impaired in CF tissues .
Result	In ilea from CF mice the initial absorptive phase of the response to mucosal ursodeoxycholic acid was still observed .
Result	It is concluded that ursodeoxycholic acid induces secretion throughout the murine small intestine by a mechanism that involves degranulation of mucosal mast cells .
Result	In the ileum Na + - dependent absorption can also be detected .
Result	The secretory response is defective in CF intestine , but the absorptive effect is still present .

Background	Although adolescents in Reunion have a pregnancy rate of 77/1000 , twice that of France , there are no published studies on the themes of adolescent pregnancy and parenthood .
Method	105 women under 18 including 20 aged 14 who gave birth in 1 maternity center were analyzed for sociofamilial characteristics and perinatal complications .
Result	The educational level of the adolescent mothers was low and 47 % had stopped school before the pregnancy .
Result	1/3 expected to find employment or return to work after delivery .
Result	19 % were already in consensual unions at the time of pregnancy and 34 % had entered such unions after delivery .
Result	It was the 2nd pregnancy for 11.5 % .
Result	Only 8.5 % used contraception .
Result	The age difference with the partner was over 5 years for more than half .
Result	68 % had known the father for more than 1 year .
Result	At the time of pregnancy , 35 % lived in families with 2 parents and 36 % in households headed by their mothers .
Result	Heads of 50 % of all their households and 80 % of those headed by the mothers were unemployed .
Result	44 % had more than 6 siblings .
Result	20 % had 1 or more sisters who were adolescent mothers .
Result	Comparison with a group of 62 adolescents seeking abortions at the same center indicated several factors that appeared to encourage continuation of the pregnancy ; including being below age level in school , absence of plans for education or employment , lim
Result	Risk factors at the level of the family included absence of the father , maternal tolerance , poverty , and sisters who were single mothers .
Result	27 % states retrospectively that they would have preferred to terminate the pregnancy , but all stated they were satisfied after the delivery .
Result	41 % had problems in pregnancy or delivery .
Result	10.5 % had toxemia and 23 % had low birth weight babies .
Result	5.7 % had caesareans , mainly for eclampsia and acute fetal distress .
Result	There was 1 stillbirth and 2 cases of cogenital malformations .
Result	14 newborns were transferred were transferred to the neonatology unit for various problems , including 6 weighing under 2000 g.
Result	Compared to the general population , the rate of fetal growth retardation was 3 times higher and that of neonatal pathology requiring transfer to the neonatology unit was 2 times higher among adolescent mothers .
Result	Prenatal care was inadequate in many cases .
Result	35 % of 14-year-old mothers had 3 or fewer prenatal visits.adolescent pregnancy -- complicationsadolescentsadolescents femaleafricaafrica south of the saharaage factorscontraceptioncontraceptive usagedelivery of health caredemographic factorsdeveloping count

Background	The rising prevalence of type 2 diabetes in the UK has necessitated a change in the delivery of diabetes care , with a shift of focus from hospital to community .
Background	The National Service Framework for Diabetes has enshrined this approach , and the new General Medical Services ( GMS2 ) contract rewards primary healthcare professionals for developing high-quality diabetes care .
Background	New approaches cross the primary/secondary care divide and are patient focused .
Background	The evolution of diabetes care in the UK is illustrated by service developments in Newham , East London .

Background	To compare the pattern of familial aggregation of psychopathology in children who are good responders ( GR ) to methylphenidate ( MPH ) versus those who are poor responders ( PR ) .
Method	A total of 118 clinically referred children ages 6 to 12 years , diagnosed with ADHD participated in a double-blind , placebo-controlled , randomized 2-week crossover trial of MPH from 1999 to 2004 .
Method	A low dose of 0.5 mg/kg of body weight of MPH divided in two equal doses was used .
Method	Family history was obtained by interviewing at least one key historian relative of each subject using Family Interview for Genetic Studies .
Method	Information was collected on 342 first-degree and 1,151 second-degree relatives of children with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder .
Result	Forty-four subjects showed mild or no improvement ( PR ) and 74 showed moderate or very much improvement ( GR ) on MPH over placebo .
Result	First-degree relatives of GR subjects were at significantly higher risk of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder than the relatives of PR subjects ( p < .05 ) .
Result	Second-degree relatives of the GR were at significantly higher risk of antisocial personality disorder compared to the relatives of PR subjects ( p < .05 ) .
Result	The significantly higher presence of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder in the first-degree relatives and of antisocial personality disorder in the second-degree relatives of GR children suggests that this group may , at least partially , be distinct

Background	The aims of the study were to describe the prevalence and associations of mental health disorder ( MHD ) among a cohort of HIV-infected patients attending the Victorian HIV/AIDS Service between 1984 and 2000 , and to examine whether antiretroviral therapy us
Background	It was hypothesized that HIV-positive individuals with MHD would have poorer treatment outcomes , reduced responses to highly active antiretroviral therapy ( HAART ) and increased mortality compared with those without MHD .
Method	This is a retrospective cohort of 2981 individuals ( 73 % of the Victorian population diagnosed with HIV infection ) captured on an HIV database which was electronically matched with the public Victorian Psychiatric Case Register ( VPCR ) ( accounting for 95 % o
Method	The prevalence , dates and recorded specifics of mental health disorders at the time of the electronic match on 1 June 2000 are described .
Method	The association with recorded MHD , gender , age , AIDS illness , HIV exposure category , duration and type of antiviral therapy , treatment era ( prior to 1986 , post-1987 and pre-HAART , and post-HAART ) on hospitalization and mortality at 1 September 2001 was assessed .
Result	Five hundred and twenty-five individuals ( 17.6 % of the Victorian HIV-positive population ) were recorded with MHD , most frequently coded as attributable to substance dependence/abuse or affective disorder .
Result	MHD was diagnosed prior to HIV in 33 % and , of those diagnosed after HIV , 93.8 % were recorded more than 1 year after the HIV diagnosis .
Result	Schizophrenia was recorded in 6 % of the population with MHD .
Result	Hospitalizations for both psychiatric and nonpsychiatric illness were more frequent in those with MHD ( relative risk 5.4 ; 95 % confidence interval 3.7 , 8.2 ) .
Result	The total number of antiretrovirals used ( median 6.4 agents vs 5.5 agents ) was greater in those with MHD .
Result	When adjusted for antiretroviral treatment era , HIV exposure category , CD4 cell count and antiretroviral therapy , survival was not affected by MHD .
Result	MHD is frequent in this population with HIV infection and is associated with increased healthcare utilization but not with reduced survival .

Background	Clinically , chronic pain and hyperalgesia induced by muscle injury are disabling and difficult to treat .
Background	Cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying chronic muscle-induced hyperalgesia are not well understood .
Method	For this reason , we developed an animal model where repeated injections of acidic saline into one gastrocnemius muscle produce bilateral , long-lasting mechanical hypersensitivity of the paw ( i.e. hyperalgesia ) without associated tissue damage .
Method	Since acid sensing ion channels ( ASICs ) are found on primary afferent fibers and respond to decreases in pH , we tested the hypothesis that ASICs on primary afferent fibers innervating muscle are critical to development of hyperalgesia and central sensitization in response to repeated intramuscular acid .
Result	Dorsal root ganglion neurons innervating muscle express ASIC3 and respond to acidic pH with fast , transient inward and sustained currents that resemble those of ASICs .
Result	Mechanical hyperalgesia produced by repeated intramuscular acid injections is prevented by prior treatment of the muscle with the non-selective ASIC antagonist , amiloride , suggesting ASICs might be involved .
Result	ASIC3 knockouts do not develop mechanical hyperalgesia to repeated intramuscular acid injection when compared to wildtype littermates .
Result	In contrast , ASIC1 knockouts develop hyperalgesia similar to their wildtype littermates .
Result	Extracellular recordings of spinal wide dynamic range ( WDR ) neurons from wildtype mice show an expansion of the receptive field to include the contralateral paw , an increased response to von Frey filaments applied to the paw both ipsilaterally and contral
Result	These changes in WDR neurons do not occur in ASIC3 knockouts .
Result	Thus , activation of ASIC3s on muscle afferents is required for development of mechanical hyperalgesia and central sensitization that normally occurs in response to repeated intramuscular acid .
Result	Therefore , interfering with ASIC3 might be of benefit in treatment or prevention of chronic hyperalgesia .

Background	Nitric oxide ( NO ) has been implicated in immune mediated cellular cytotoxicity and inflammatory processes including multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
Method	We aimed to assess NO production in MS patients and to delineate its involvement in different stages .
Method	The stable end-products of NO ; nitrite ( NO2 - ) and nitrate ( NO3 - ) were analysed both in serum and CSF ( cerebrospinal fluid ) of patients with MS and non-inflammatory neurological diseases .
Method	Nitrite levels were quantified by calorimetric assay based on the Griess reaction .
Method	Nitrate levels were examined spectrophotometrically .
Result	MS patients exhibited significantly increased serum and CSF levels of NO2 - + NO3 - compared with the control subjects .
Result	CSF NO2 - + NO3 - levels were raised significantly in MS patients with both relapsing remitting ( RR ) and secondary progressive ( SP ) course .
Result	There was no significant difference between RR and SP MS patients with regard to NO metabolites .
Result	No significant correlation was found between NO metabolites and disability score , disease progression index , MRI ( magnetic resonance imaging ) activity and development of cortical atrophy on MRI .
Result	This study provides further evidence for excessive NO production both in CSF and peripheral blood of MS patients .
Result	Excessive CSF NO2 - + NO3 - levels being more increased than the levels in sera supports pathological inflammatory process within CNS ( central nervous system ) in both stages of MS.
Result	Another implication for the role of NO and INOS inhibitors in the treatment of MS patients with both RR and SP courses was also suggested .

Background	To investigate the additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy of 64 patients in whom chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy ( CIDP ) was considered , as sural nerve biopsy is recommended in the research criteria of an ad hoc subcommittee to
Method	Firstly , the additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy was analysed with multivariate logistic regression .
Method	Six clinical features ( remitting course , symmetric sensorimotor neuropathy in arms and legs , areflexia , raised CSF protein concentration , nerve conduction studies consistent with demyelination , and absence of comorbidity or relevant laboratory abnormalities ) were entered into a logistic model .
Method	Afterwards , all significant features identified from this model , as well as the results of sural nerve biopsy were forced into a second logistic model .
Method	Secondly , the diagnostic performance of a neurologist experienced in diagnosis of peripheral nerve disorders was studied by receiver operating characteristics ( ROC ) curve analysis .
Result	The results of the first logistic analysis showed that CSF protein concentration > 1 g/l ( odds ratio ( OR ) = 38.5 ) and neurophysiological studies consistent with demyelination ( OR = 51.7 ) were strong predictors of CIDP .
Result	When forcing the significant features and the sural nerve biopsy data into the model , an independent predictive value of sural nerve biopsy could not be found .
Result	The neurologist was able to discriminate patients with and without CIDP ( area under the curve ( AUC ) = 0.95 ) .
Result	His diagnostic performance did not improve significantly by offering him the results of sural nerve biopsy .
Result	Any additional diagnostic value of sural nerve biopsy in the diagnosis of CIDP could not be shown .

Background	Clinically unrecognized intravascular volume overload may contribute to worsening symptoms and disease progression in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) .
Method	The present study was undertaken to prospectively compare measured blood volume status ( determined by radiolabeled albumin technique ) with clinical and hemodynamic characteristics and patient outcomes in 43 nonedematous ambulatory patients with CHF .
Result	Blood volume analysis demonstrated that 2 subjects ( 5 % ) were hypovolemic ( mean deviation from normal values -20 + / - 6 % ) , 13 subjects ( 30 % ) were normovolemic ( mean deviation from normal values -1 + / - 1 % ) , and 28 subjects ( 65 % ) were hypervolemic ( mean devia
Result	Physical findings of congestion were infrequent and not associated with blood volume status .
Result	Increased blood volume was associated with increased pulmonary capillary wedge pressure ( p = 0.01 ) and greatly increased risk of death or urgent cardiac transplantation during a median follow-up of 719 days ( 1-year event rate 39 % vs 0 % , p < 0.01 by log -
Result	Systolic blood pressure was significantly lower in hypervolemic patients than in those with normovolemia or hypovolemia ( 107 + / - 2 vs 119 + / - 2 mm Hg , p = 0.008 ) , and hypotension was independently associated with increased risk of hypervolemia in multivar
Result	These findings demonstrate that clinically unrecognized hypervolemia is frequently present in nonedematous patients with CHF and is associated with increased cardiac filling pressures and worse patient outcomes .

Background	To investigate heritability and continuum versus categorical approaches to attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) , using a large-scale twin sample .
Method	A cohort of 1,938 families with twins and siblings aged 4 to 12 years , recruited from the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council Twin Registry , was assessed for ADHD using a DSM-III-R-based maternal rating scale .
Method	Probandwise concordance rates and correlations in monozygotic and dizygotic twins and siblings were calculated , and heritability was examined using the De Fries and Fulker regression technique .
Result	There was a narrow ( additive ) heritability of 0.75 to 0.91 which was robust across familial relationships ( twin , sibling , and twin-sibling ) and across definitions of ADHD as part of a continuum or as a disorder with various symptom cutoffs .
Result	There was no evidence for nonadditive genetic variation or for shared family environmental effects .
Result	These findings suggest that ADHD is best viewed as the extreme of a behavior that varies genetically throughout the entire population rather than as a disorder with discrete determinants .
Result	This has implications for the classification of ADHD and for the identification of genes for this behavior , as well as implications for diagnosis and treatment .

Background	Highly sensitized ( HS ) patients ( > 85 % panel-reactive antibodies ) have a lower chance of receiving a donor kidney .
Background	Within Eurotransplant the Acceptable Mismatch ( AM ) program was developed to increase the chances of HS patients to receive a crossmatch-negative donor kidney .
Method	The standard crossmatch in the AM program is based on complement-dependent cytotoxicity .
Method	In this study we wanted to determine the clinical relevance of human leukocyte antigen donor-directed antibodies ( DDA ) detected by the single antigen ( SA ) bead technique , in the pretransplant sera of HS patients transplanted in our center through the Euro
Result	From 34 AM patients , 27 were transplanted with 1 to 5 mismatches and 7 received a 0-mismatched graft .
Result	From the mismatched patients , retrospectively , 13 proved to possess pretransplant DDA by SA whereas 14 did not .
Result	No antibodies were found in the 0-mismatched group .
Result	Comparison of the DDA + and DDA - patients in the human leukocyte antigen-mismatched donor/recipient combinations revealed a trend to an earlier and higher number of rejection episodes in DDA + patients ( P = 0.08 ) .
Result	No detrimental effect of DDA on graft survival was observed .
Result	This single-center study showed that in the AM program DDA detected by SA , and not by less-sensitive methods , may be related to acute rejection episodes but is not detrimental to long-term graft outcome .
Result	These findings question the increasing use of more-sensitive screening techniques for the allocation of organs .

Background	Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) modulate immune responses particularly by affecting T cell function and are applied clinically as adjuvant immunosuppressants in the treatment of various inflammatory diseases .
Background	However , the molecular mechanisms of PUFA-induced immunosuppressive effects are not yet elucidated .
Background	Membrane lipid rafts are functional plasma membrane microdomains characterized by a unique lipid environment .
Background	Since lipid interactions are crucial for the formation of lipid rafts , the immunomodulatory effects of PUFAs may be due to changes of fatty acid composition in lipid rafts.AIM OF THE STUDY :
Method	We investigated the effects of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA , 20:5 n - 3 ) supplementation on modulating lipid composition and fatty acyl substitution in their cytoplasmic and exoplasmic lipid leaflet in lipid rafts.METHODS : The human Jurkat E6-1 T cells were
Method	Lipid rafts were isolated by discontinuous sucrose density gradient ultracentrifugation .
Method	The lipids in raft and soluble fractions from EPA-treated and control T cells were extracted and separated by gas chromatography .
Result	Raft phospholipids were analyzed by mass spectrometry.RESULTS : Our results showed that EPA treatment could alter lipid composition resulting in a considerable increase of unsaturated fatty acyl chains in lipid rafts from EPA-treated T cells compared with
Result	Effective incorporation of EPA to rafts was not only in the exoplasmic but also in the cytoplasmic membrane lipid leaflet .
Result	EPA treatment altered the lipid environment in lipid rafts .
Result	EPA presented an inhibiting effect on Jurkat T cells proliferation and inhibited IL-2Ralpha expression on the surface of T cells.CONCLUSIONS : Our data provided evidence for an important modification in lipid composition of membrane lipid rafts and T cell

Background	Activation of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) - alpha , a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily , modulates inflammation and tissue injury events associated with spinal cord trauma in mice .
Background	Palmitoylethanolamide ( PEA ) , the naturally occurring amide of palmitic acid and ethanolamine , reduces pain and inflammation through a mechanism dependent on PPAR-alpha activation .
Method	The aim of the present study was to evaluate the effect of the PEA on secondary damage induced by experimental spinal cord injury ( SCI ) in mice .
Method	SCI was induced by application of vascular clips to the dura mater via a four-level T ( 5 ) - T ( 8 ) laminectomy .
Result	This resulted in severe trauma characterized by edema , neutrophil infiltration , and production of inflammatory mediators , tissue damage , and apoptosis .
Result	Repeated PEA administration ( 10 mg/kg i.p. ; 30 min before and 1 and 6 h after SCI ) significantly reduced : 1 ) the degree of spinal cord inflammation and tissue injury , 2 ) neutrophil infiltration , 3 ) nitrotyrosine formation , 4 ) proinflammatory cytokine expr
Result	Moreover , PEA treatment significantly ameliorated the recovery of motor limb function .
Result	Together , the results indicate that PEA reduces inflammation and tissue injury associated with SCI and suggest a regulatory role for endogenous PPAR-alpha signaling in the inflammatory response associated with spinal cord trauma .

Method	One hundred thirty consecutive patients with metastatic spinal cord compression ( MSCC ) were entered in a therapeutic protocol in which radiation therapy ( RT ) played the main role .
Background	When MSCC is diagnosed by clinical-radiologic methods such as myelography with or without computed tomography ( CT ) or magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , steroids are given and RT treatment started within 24 hours .
Background	When diagnostic doubts exist or stabilization is necessary , surgery precedes RT. .
Background	Chemohormonal potentially responsive tumors are also treated with chemotherapy or hormonal therapy .
Method	Twelve patients ( 9.2 % ) underwent surgery plus RT , and 118 ( 90.8 % ) received RT alone .
Result	Thirteen ( 11 % ) early death patients were not evaluable .
Method	The 105 evaluable cases that received RT alone were analyzed .
Method	Median follow-up was 15 months ( range , 4 to 38 months ) .
Result	Response among patients with back pain was 80 % .
Result	In cases with motor dysfunction , 48.6 % improved , and in 33 of 105 patients ( 31.4 % ) without motor disability there was no deterioration .
Result	Forty percent of patients with autonomic dysfunction responded to RT. .
Result	Median survival time was 7 months with a 36 % probability of survival for 1 year .
Result	The median duration of improvement was 8 months .
Result	The most important prognostic factor was early diagnosis .
Result	Radiosensitivity of tumor was only important in paraparetic patients in predicting response to RT. .
Result	Complete myelographic block significantly diminished response to RT. .
Result	Vertebral collapse did not influence response or survival .

Background	To characterize the matched maternal and cord plasma and the amniotic fluid concentrations of iodide in preterm and term human pregnancies .
Method	Specimens were collected at the delivery of 121 singleton pregnancies ( 92 at term , 29 preterm ) with no pre-existing medical complications .
Method	Plasma unbound iodide concentrations were measured by the difference between the protein bound iodine and the total iodine measured spectrophotometrically .
Method	Total iodide was measured in amniotic fluid .
Result	Maternal plasma iodide concentrations were 1.6 + / - 0.4 mcg/dL ( mean + / - S.D. ) for preterm deliveries and 1.5 + / -0.5 mcg/dL for term deliveries .
Result	Cord plasma iodide concentrations were 1.4 + / - 0.5 mcg/dL for preterm deliveries and 1.7 + / - 0.7 mcg/dL for term deliveries .
Result	Cord plasma iodide concentrations at birth correlated highly with maternal levels ( p < 0.001 ) .
Result	The cord : maternal plasma iodide ratio for all pairs was 1.2 + / - 0.7 .
Result	The average cord : maternal plasma iodide ratio was not significantly different between the preterm ( 0.9 + / - 0.4 ) and term ( 1.3 + / - 0.8 ) deliveries .
Result	Amniotic fluid iodide concentrations did not correlate significantly with cord plasma concentrations .
Result	Cord plasma concentrations of iodide correlate with paired maternal levels , indicating that , unlike the rabbit and other species , the human conceptus does not highly concentrate iodide .

Background	Epidemiological studies suggest that adiposity in children may be associated with a reduced level of physical activity .
Background	Children with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder ( ADHD ) are physically hyperactive as of early childhood and have been shown to exhibit higher levels of motor activity than normal .
Method	The aim of our study was to assess if the prevalence of overweight and obesity is lower in a population of boys with ADHD in comparison with the German healthy male reference population of the same age .
Method	Patients were investigated from 1999 until 2001 upon referral to the inpatient and outpatient unit of the Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry of the University of Aachen .
Method	A total of 97 male patients ( mean age 10 + / -2 y ) with a diagnosis of ADHD according the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM-IV ) , who were free of potentially orexigenic medication and who had no further comorbid diagnosis apart from
Method	BMI standard deviation scores ( BMI-SDS ) were calculated and compared to age-adapted reference value of the German population .
Result	Patients ' mean BMI-SDS was significantly higher than the age-adapted reference values of the German population ( P = 0.038 ) .
Result	Our sample included significantly more subjects than expected with a BMI > or = 90th percentile ( 19.6 % , P < 0.001 ) and > or = 97th percentile ( 7.2 % , P = 0.007 ) .
Result	Surprisingly , being ` hyperactive ' in the sense of the DSM-IV diagnosis of ADHD does not prevent the development or persistence of overweight and obesity in children .
Result	The examination of these children might be a helpful approach in the investigation of the relationship between obesity and its contributing psychological and behavioural factors .

Method	Seventy two spinal cord injured subjects ( 63 males and 9 females ) with long-standing lesions ( mean 110 months , range 43-187 ) were admitted to the Sunnaas Hospital for routine examination ( questionnaire , neurological status , radiography , urodynamics , blood
Method	The subjects were divided into three groups with Low - ( peak VO2 less than 15 ml/kg/min ) , Medium - ( 15 less than VO2 greater than 25 ) and High - ( VO2 greater than 25 ) endurance capacity .
Result	The rate of urinary tract infections ( UTIs ) and osteoporotic leg bones , was significantly reduced with increasing oxygen uptake ( p less than 0.05 , X2 test ) .
Result	Differences in scores for ADL-independency ( ADL = Activities of daily living ) and ambulation on crutches with braces , were even more pronounced between the L , M and H groups ( p less than 0.001 ) .
Result	The same trends , although not always statistically significant , were also observed in a homogeneous group of paraplegic patients ( n = 43 , injury level below T6 ) .
Result	The results emphasise the importance of regular physical endurance activities to patient well-being , because relatively high endurance capacity was found to be related to less frequent medical complications , and to a higher degree of ADL self-independency

Background	To examine the performance of two widely used outcome measures in public adult mental health services .
Method	As part of a larger study , clinical staff in eight New Zealand District Health Board areas collected consumer outcomes data for a period of 6 months .
Method	Among other measures , the Health of the Nation Outcome Scales ( HoNOS ) and Life Skills Profile ( LSP-16 ) were completed at the start and end of episodes of care , as well as at 90-day reviews .
Result	The performance of these two measures was examined in relation to compliance with the data collection protocol , item completion rates , certain psychometric properties , the relationship between them and the relationship of each instrument to the age , sex ,
Result	Compliance with the HoNOS was superior to the LSP-16 , but the reverse was true for completion .
Result	The two instruments were strongly correlated , but not enough to suggest that one may substitute for the other .
Result	A five-subscale structure for the HoNOS was supported .
Result	Certain HoNOS subscales were associated with age , but the total score was not , and differences between the sexes were small .
Result	Some large diagnostic differences were observed on both instruments .
Result	All LSP-16 summary scores and all HoNOS summary scores apart from Depression were higher ( worse ) in involuntary episodes .
Result	Only one LSP-16 item , relating to work potential , was related to age and men generally scored higher ( worse ) than women .
Result	From a technical perspective , the HoNOS and LSP-16 appear suitable for routine collection .
Result	New Zealand has adopted the HoNOS for routine use but not the LSP-16 because of local concerns about its appropriateness and acceptability .
Result	The clinician-rated measures reported here need to be complemented by both consumer-rated and family/carer measures .

Background	No somatic treatment has been found to be effective for chronic fatigue syndrome ( CFS ) .
Background	Antidepressant therapy is commonly used .
Background	Fluoxetine is recommended in preference to tricyclic agents because it has fewer sedative and autonomic nervous system effects .
Background	However , there have been no randomised , placebo-controlled , double-blind studies showing the effectiveness of antidepressant therapy in CFS .
Background	We have carried out such a study to assess the effect of fluoxetine in depressed and non-depressed CFS patients .
Method	In this randomised , double-blind study , we recruited 44 patients to the depressed CFS group , and 52 to the non-depressed CFS group .
Method	In each group participants were randomly assigned to receive either fluoxetine ( 20 mg once daily ) or placebo for 8 weeks .
Method	The effect of fluoxetine was assessed by questionnaires , self-observation lists , standard neuropsychological tests , and a motion-sensing device ( Actometer ) , which were applied on the day treatment started and on the last day .
Result	The two groups were well matched in terms of age , sex distribution , employment and marital status , and duration of CFS .
Result	There were no significant differences between the placebo and fluoxetine-treated groups in the change during the 8-week treatment period for any dimension of CFS .
Result	There was no change in subjective assessments of fatigue , severity of depression , functional impairment , sleep disturbances , neuropsychological function , cognitions , or physical activity in the depressed or the non-depressed subgroup .
Result	Fluoxetine in a 20 mg daily dose does not have a beneficial effect on any characteristic of CFS .
Result	The lack of effect of fluoxetine on depressive symptoms in CFS suggests that processes underlying the presentation of depressive symptoms in CFS may differ from those in patients with major depressive disorder .

Background	To evaluate the status of transmyocardial laser revascularization ( TMLR ) from an evidence-based perspective to help hospitals make resource management decisions .
Method	Qualitative systematic review of the clinical literature .
Method	We searched the reference databases MEDLINE , BIOSIS , EMBASE , SciSearch , and Current Contents to identify all articles related to TMLR published between January 1985 and March 1997 .
Method	We collected , analyzed , and summarized clinical studies in evidence tables .
Method	The cumulative evidence available in the medical literature regarding the safety and effectiveness of TMLR encompasses approximately 2000 patients treated worldwide , primarily those with medically refractory angina .
Result	Preliminary data suggest that TMLR has an acceptable survival rate and effectively relieves angina in approximately 75 % of patients .
Result	Data showing improved myocardial perfusion , cardiac function , or prognosis are inconclusive .
Result	The mechanism by which TMLR relieves angina is not yet known .
Result	Early evidence regarding TMLR suggests it will be useful for treating patients with end-stage coronary artery disease .
Result	Definitive recommendations await critical analysis of the results of ongoing randomized clinical trials , post-market surveillance studies , and third-party payer acceptance .

Method	The present study is a retrospective analysis of spinal fracture treatment with the Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation technique .
Method	150 unstable injuries of the spine were treated with the CD implant at the University of Louisville -- Level I Trauma Center -- between February 1985 and March 1989 .
Method	There were 67 burst fractures , 48 compression fractures and 21 fracture dislocations , 8 flexion distraction fractures and 6 flexion rotation injuries .
Method	Ninety-three patients underwent anterior cord decompression and strut grafting followed by posterior CD instrumentation and posterolateral fusion .
Method	Fifty-seven patients had posterior CD instrumentation and fusion alone .
Result	No neurological deterioration after the procedure was observed , 33 patients improved neurologically .
Result	Hospital stay ranged between 7 and 60 days ( mean 20 days ) .
Result	114 patients had a minimum follow up of 6 months ( range 6-52 months ) .
Result	The mean follow up was 17.7 months .
Result	At final follow up 77.8 % of the patients had returned to work and 84.2 % of the patients were almost painfree .
Result	The mean loss of correction in the sagittal plane was 6.2 degrees ( range : 0 and 42 degrees ) at final follow up .
Result	As technical complications there were four hook cut outs ( 2.6 % ) of which two underwent reosteosynthesis and two did not effect the clinical or radiographic result .
Result	The high stability of the device provides a decreased risk of neurological deterioration , a decreased risk of posttraumatic kyphosis and early rehabilitation .

Background	Doctors need to identify and understand the professional behaviours of both themselves and others .
Background	In order for students to think critically about these issues we encouraged them to use the tenets of the General Medical Council 's Duties of a Doctor as a framework in which to reflect on the actions of healthcare professionals at work .
Background	Although the critical incident technique is a well-known process for encouraging reflection , little is known about its usefulness for assessment purposes in this setting .
Method	We aimed to discover the validity , feasibility and educational impact of the critical incident as an assessment method for first year students undertaking guided reflection in the context of their first exposure to multi-professional health and social car
Method	First year medical students submitted two critical incidents they had observed during multi-professional health and social care attachments and an evaluation of their experiences .
Result	Students engaged in the reflective cycle on the professional behaviours of others providing evidence of a varied range of situations .
Result	With adequate preparation , junior students are able to reflect on social and healthcare experiences using the Duties of a Doctor as a framework .
Result	Critical incidents are a valid and feasible method for assessing students ' reflections on professionalism , with good educational impact .

Background	One way of attempting to improve fetal growth has been nutrient supplementation for the mother when fetal growth is impaired .
Background	Different nutrients such as carbohydrates and amino acids have been suggested as treatments for impaired fetal growth .
Method	The objective of this review was to assess the effects of nutrient administration for suspected fetal growth impairment on fetal growth and perinatal outcome .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register .
Method	Date of last search 1 November 2002 .
Method	Acceptably controlled trials of nutrient administration for suspected impaired fetal growth compared to placebo or no treatment .
Method	Trial quality was assessed .
Result	Three studies involving 121 women were included .
Result	They were small and/or had methodological limitations .
Result	No difference was detected in the number of small for gestational age infants whose mothers had received nutrients compared to those who did not ( relative risk for calf blood extract 0.54 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.20 to 1.47 ; for glucose 1.11 , 95 % C

Background	Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a devastating condition often affecting young and healthy individuals around the world .
Background	This debilitating condition not only creates enormous physical and emotional cost to individuals but also is a significant financial burden to society at large .
Background	This review was undertaken to understand the global impact of SCI on society .
Background	We also attempted to summarize the worldwide demographics and preventative strategies for SCI in varying economic and climatic environments and to evaluate how cultural and economic differences affect the etiology of SCI .
Method	A PUBMED database search was performed in order to identify clinical epidemiological studies of SCI within the last decade .
Method	In addition , World Bank and World Health Organization websites were used to obtain demographics , economics , and health statistics of countries of interest .
Method	A total of 20 manuscripts were selected from 17 countries .
Result	We found that SCI varies in etiology , male-to-female ratios , age distributions , and complications in different countries .
Result	Nations with similar economies tend to have similar features and incidences in all the above categories .
Result	However , diverse methods of classifying SCI were found , making comparisons difficult .
Result	Based upon these findings , it is clear that the categorization and evaluation of SCI must be standardized .
Result	The authors suggest improved methods of reporting in the areas of etiology , neurological classification , and incidence of SCI so that , in the future , more useful global comprehensive studies and comparisons can be undertaken .
Result	Unified injury prevention programs should be implemented through methods involving the Internet and international organizations , targeting the different etiologies of SCI found in different countries .

Background	Reactive oxygen species formation and release of pro-inflammatory/pro-atherogenic cytokines , that is , interleukin 1-beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha , need the activation of the arachidonic acid cascade via the enzyme 5-lipoxygenase ( 5-Lox ) .
Background	5-Lox activity and expression are significantly increased in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) of end-stage renal disease ( ESRD ) patients on maintenance hemodialysis ( HD ) .
Background	Diets enriched with n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) ( omega-3 ) have been associated to a lower incidence of coronary heart disease ( CHD ) and a reduction in atherosclerotic lesions .
Background	Omega-3 may interfere with the arachidonic acid cascade by inhibiting 5-Lox .
Method	Lipid peroxidation , leukotriene B ( 4 ) ( LTB ( 4 ) ) production , 5-Lox activity and expression were investigated in PBMC isolated from ESRD patients under maintenance HD before and after a 3-month oral supplementation with omega-3 at a daily dose of 2700 mg of n
Method	PBMCs from non-uremic volunteers were also investigated for comparison to normal parameters .
Result	Administration of omega-3 reduced significantly lipid peroxidation ( P < 0.0001 ) , LTB ( 4 ) synthesis ( P < 0.0001 ) and 5-Lox activity ( P < 0.0001 ) , with no effect on 5-Lox protein expression .
Result	After the 3-month washout , all parameters were comparable to those observed before treatment .
Result	Our results resemble those obtained after oral administration of vitamin E and are consistent with a reversible , dose-dependent inhibition of 5-Lox by omega-3 .
Result	Upregulation of 5-Lox may also be related to the increased mitochondrial damage and apoptosis of PBMCs observed in ESRD patients compared to non-uremic controls .
Result	Omega-3 may thus protect PBMCs of ESRD patients against oxidative stress .

Background	Chronic central pain is a frequent complication after spinal cord injury .
Background	Anticonvulsant drugs , among them valproate , have been recommended for treatment .
Method	In this paper we conducted a double-blind , cross-over study comparing valproate and placebo for severe chronic central pain .
Method	During the study , serum concentration of valproate , pain and side effects were registered and the dose was adjusted according to these .
Result	No significant analgesic effects of valproate could be demonstrated although serum concentration and dose reached a high level .
Result	Few studies of pain following spinal cord injury exist and we recommend that further studies be performed .

Background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a major health problem , both in terms of the economic cost to society and the survivor 's quality of life .
Background	The development of devices to protect against TBI requires criteria that relate observed injury to measurements of head kinematics .
Background	The objective of this study is to find the best statistical correlates to impact-induced TBI in nonhuman primates using a qualified , self-consistent set of historical kinematic and TBI data from impact tests on nonhuman primates .
Method	A database was constructed and qualified from historical head impact tests on nonhuman primates .
Method	Multivariate logistic regression analysis with backwards stepwise elimination was performed .
Method	Variables considered are the peak rotational acceleration ( Omegamax ) , the peak linear acceleration ( Amax ) , and the number of impacts ( N ) .
Result	Bivariate combinations of angular acceleration and the number of impacts are the best correlates to all modes of TBI considered , i.e. , concussion , subarachnoid hemorrhage , brain contusion , and subdural hematoma .
Result	For a nonhuman primate with 100-g brain mass , the criteria that the probability of TBI is less than 10 % by injury mode are : Concussion : OmegamaxN ( 0.84 ) < 70 krad/s/s SAH : OmegamaxN ( 0.70 ) < 160 krad/s/s Contusion : Omegamax N ( 0.35 ) < 160 krad/s/s SD
Result	Based on this dataset , the best statistically based risk factor for all modes of TBI in nonhuman primates is the bivariate combination of rotational acceleration and number of impacts .

Background	Nociceptive inputs from primary afferents are primarily mediated at fast glutamatergic synapses onto second order neurons in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord through activation of AMPA/kainate and NMDA receptor subtypes of ionotropic glutamate receptors
Background	At these glutamatergic synapses several forms of short-lasting and long-lasting enhancement of synaptic transmission are known .
Background	Enhancement of excitatory synaptic transmission in nociceptive pathways is thought to be a key neural substrate underlying chronic pain , and thus the cellular and molecular mechanisms producing this enhancement represent potential targets for developing n
Background	Central to the mechanisms for pain hypersensitivity is the NMDA receptor , the activity of which is facilitated by convergent intracellular biochemical cascades in dorsal horn neurons .
Background	Cellular changes are not restricted to neurons in the dorsal horn , however , and there is growing evidence for involvement of glia , and of glia-neuronal signaling , in initiating and sustaining enhancement of nociceptive transmission .
Method	In particular , a role has emerged for microglia in pain hypersensitivity following nerve injury .
Result	This expanded understanding of cellular and molecular signalling mechanisms in the dorsal horn , that includes both neurons and glia , provides a basis of creating new types of strategies for management , and also for diagnosis , of chronic pain .

Background	Enuresis ( bedwetting ) is a socially disruptive and stressful condition which affects around 15-20 % of five year olds , and up to 2 % of young adults .
Background	To assess the effects of desmopressin on nocturnal enuresis in children , and to compare desmopressin with other interventions .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group trials register .
Method	Date of the most recent search March 2002 .
Method	The reference list of a previous version of this review was also searched .
Method	All randomised trials of desmopressin for nocturnal enuresis in children were included in the review .
Method	Comparison interventions included placebo , other drugs , alarms or behavioural methods .
Method	Trials focused solely on daytime wetting were excluded .
Method	Two reviewers independently assessed the quality of the eligible trials , and extracted data .
Result	Forty one randomised trials involving 2760 children ( of whom 1813 received desmopressin ) met the inclusion criteria .
Result	The quality of many of the trials was poor .
Result	Desmopressin was compared with another drug in four trials , and with alarms in seven .
Method	Desmopressin was effective in reducing bedwetting in a variety of doses and forms .
Result	Each dose of desmopressin reduced bedwetting by at least one night per week during treatment compared with placebo ( e.g. 20 microg : 1.34 fewer wet nights per week , 95 % CI 1.11 to 1.57 ) .
Method	Children on desmopressin were more likely to become dry ( e.g. RR for failure to achieve 14 dry nights with 20 mcg 0.84 , 95 % CI 0.79 to 0.91 ) .
Method	However , there was no difference after treatment was finished .
Result	There was no clear dose-related effect of desmopressin , but the evidence was limited .
Result	Data which compared oral and nasal administration were too few to be conclusive .
Result	While desmopressin was better than diclofenac or indomethacin , and comparison with tricyclic drugs ( amitriptyline and imipramine ) suggested that they might be as effective as desmopressin , the data were inconclusive due to small numbers .
Result	There were more side effects with the tricyclics .
Result	In one small trial , desmopressin resulted in more wet nights than alarms towards the end of treatment ( WMD 1.4 , 95 % CI : 0.14 to 2.66 ) and the chance of failure or relapse after alarms was less ( RR 9.17 , 95 % CI 1.28 to 65.90 ) .
Result	Although there were fewer wet nights during alarm treatment supplemented by desmopressin compared with alarms alone ( WMD -1.35 , 95 % CI -2.32 to -0.38 ) , the data are inconclusive about whether this is reflected in lower failure ( RR 0.88 , 95 % CI 0.52 to 1.50
Result	Desmopressin rapidly reduced the number of wet nights per week , but there was some evidence that this was not sustained after treatment stopped .
Result	Comparison with alternative treatments suggested that desmopressin and tricyclics had similar clinical effects , but that alarms may produce more sustained benefits .
Result	However , based on the available limited evidence , these conclusions can only be tentative .
Result	Children should be advised not to drink more than 240 ml ( 8 oz ) fluid during desmopressin treatment in order to avoid the possible risk of water intoxication .

Background	A substantial proportion of the population with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) has concomitant airway disease .
Background	Little information exists on the tolerability of carvedilol in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) .
Background	In this study , we assessed the tolerability and efficacy of carvedilol in patients with CHF and concomitant COPD or asthma .
Method	Between 1996 and 2000 , a total of 487 patients began receiving open-label carvedilol .
Method	Forty-three ( 9 % ) had COPD ( n = 31 ) or asthma ( n = 12 ) .
Method	Spirometry supported clinical diagnosis in all , and full pulmonary function testing supported diagnosis in 71 % .
Method	Sixty percent began carvedilol therapy in the hospital and underwent measurement of peak expiratory flow rates ( PEFR ) before and after dosing .
Result	In patients with COPD , mean forced expiratory volume in one second ( FEV ( 1 ) ) was 62 % + / - 13 % predicted , reversibility was 4 % + / - 4 % with bronchodilators , and FEV ( 1 ) / FVC was 62 % + / - 8 % .
Result	Mean PEFR was 325 + / - 115 liter/min before the dose and increased by 17 % 2 hours after the carvedilol dose ( p = 0.04 ) .
Result	In patients with asthma , mean FEV ( 1 ) was 80 % + / - 17 % predicted , reversibility was 13 % + / - 7 % , and FEV ( 1 ) / FVC was 74 % + / - 11 % .
Result	Mean PEFR was 407 + / - 161 liter/min before the dose with no significant change 2 hours after the dose .
Result	Carvedilol was introduced safely in 84 % of patients with COPD , with only 1 patient withdrawn from therapy for wheezing .
Result	In contrast , only 50 % of patients with asthma tolerated carvedilol .
Result	Survival at 2.5 years was 72 % .
Result	In survivors , left ventricular end-diastolic diameter decreased from 76 + / - 11 mm to 72 + / - 14 mm ( p = 0.01 ) , left ventricular end-systolic diameter decreased from 65 + / - 13 mm to 60 + / - 15 mm ( p = 0.01 ) , and fractional shortening increased from 14 % + / - 7
Result	Patients with CHF and COPD tolerated carvedilol well with no significant reversible airflow limitation , but patients with CHF and asthma tolerated carvedilol poorly .
Result	The effect of carvedilol on left ventricular dimensions and function in patients with concomitant airway diseases was similar to that seen in our general group of patients .
Result	Asthma remains a contraindication to beta-blockade .

Background	It was hypothesised from previous observational studies in the Faroes and Denmark that dietary marine n-3 fatty acids would prolong the duration of pregnancy and thereby increase the birth weight , by influencing the production of prostaglandins involved i
Method	Five hundred and thirty-three healthy Danish women were randomly assigned in the 30th week of pregnancy to fish oil ( 2.7 g n-3 fatty acids ( 4 1-g capsules Pikasol oil ) per day ) , olive oil ( 4 1-g capsules per day ) or no oil supplementation .
Result	The three groups differed in mean gestational age at birth ( ANOVA , p = 0.006 ) , with the fish oil group ranking highest and the olive oil group lowest .
Result	Babies born to women allocated fish oil had on average 4.0 ( 95 % confidence interval 1.5 ; 6.4 ) days higher gestational age and 107 ( 95 % confidence interval 1 ; 214 ) g higher weight at birth than babies born to women allocated olive oil ; the difference in gest
Result	Fish oil supplementation in the third trimester seems to prolong gestation while allowing continued growth of the foetus ; this effect seems to explain the difference between the Faroes and Denmark in pregnancy duration .

Background	To review the change in number of referrals to speech and language therapy for dysphasia and dysphagia over one decade .
Method	This retrospective study analyses data collected on an information system developed specifically for the use of speech and language therapists in the management of their services .
Method	Eleven health care providers used the system between 1985 and 1995 and recorded details of 73758 patients referred to speech and language therapy during that period .
Result	Whilst there were 12 times as many dysphasic patients as dysphagic patients referred to speech and language therapy in 1987 , the position was reversed by 1995 with twice as many dysphagic as dysphasic patients being referred to these services .
Result	Dysphagia in 1987 accounted for less than 1 % of the referrals to speech and language therapy .
Result	This percentage increased , until in 1995 20 % of referrals were for dysphagia .
Result	No causal relationship between the changes in referral to speech and language therapy for these two groups has been established in this study .
Result	However , there has been a significant increase in referral to speech and language therapy of people with dysphagia .
Result	Whilst referrals for dysphasia have increased , they represent a lower percentage increase and now receive less treatment per case than in 1987 .

Method	The pregnancy outcomes for 41 patients with high-risk pregnancies who had undergone antepartum fetal heart rate testing between July 5 , 1977 , and April 10 , 1980 , and demonstrated a nonreactive nonstress test ( NST ) and a positive contraction stress test ( C
Method	The estimated gestational ages of the time of the positive CST ranged from 28 to 44 weeks ' gestation .
Result	Of the 41 pregnant women with a positive CST , 30 were allowed to labor .
Result	The remaining 11 patients underwent immediate cesarean section ( 8 ) or were managed expectantly because of immature phospholipid profiles ( 3 ) .
Result	In the laboring group , 60.0 % had evidence of late decelerations .
Result	Cesarean section for persistent late decelerations was necessary in 33.3 % .
Result	The overall cesarean section rate for the positive CST group was 58.5 % .
Result	The neonatal outcome for these 41 pregnancies demonstrated 29.3 % of fetuses to be growth retarded and 17.1 % of fetuses to have congenital abnormalities .
Result	The overall perinatal mortality rate was 7.3 % .
Result	This investigation further substantiates the increased fetal and neonatal risks associated with a nonreactive NST and a positive CST .
Result	Induction of labor with direct fetal monitoring should be attempted in a term gestation where the cervix is ready for induction of labor and where rapid intervention by cesarean section is possible .

Background	The aim of this study was to determine whether the probability of osteoporosis and osteopenia was affected by the risk factors , physical examination findings , or radiological investigations such as spinal X-rays in postmenopausal women .
Method	We assessed risk factors such as use of hormone replacement therapy , physical activity level , calcium intake , smoking , caffeine consumption , long-term immobilization , previous history of fracture , family history of fracture , presence of certain systemic diseases ( hyperthyroidism or hyperparathyroidism ) , or use of medications ( corticosteroids or others ) , physical examinations , and presence of vertebral fractures on spinal X-rays .
Method	Patients ' bone mineral density ( BMD ) was evaluated using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry ( DXA ) in the lumbar spine , and we compared the risk factors between osteopenic and osteoporotic women according to DXA .
Method	We evaluated 235 postmenopausal women who attended our osteoporosis outpatient clinic .
Method	Those patients were divided into two groups as either osteopenic ( n = 67 , mean age 63.1 years ) or osteoporotic ( n = 168 , mean age 66.2 years ) according to WHO criteria .
Result	The lumbar spinal ( L1-L2 ) T-score values were -1.5 + / - 0.6 and -3.1 + / - 0.6 in osteopenic and osteoporotic groups , respectively .
Result	There were significant differences between the two groups in terms of mean age and lumbar BMD ( p = 0.009 and p < 0.001 , respectively ) .
Result	We also observed that vertebral tenderness on palpation , back pain , and existing vertebral fracture ( fx ) were significantly different between the osteopenic and osteoporotic groups ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	As a result of the statistical analysis , we found an equation to determine osteopenic and osteoporotic women by using those four factors ( age , vertebral tenderness on palpation , back pain , and existing vertebral fx ) in multivariate stepwise logistic regre
Result	The equation is as follows : Y ( DXA ) = -2.9024 + 0.044 ( age in year ) + 0.819 ( vertebral fx ) + 0.877 ( pain ) + 1.136 ( vertebral tenderness ) .
Result	We can estimate whether a postmenopausal woman is osteopenic or osteoporotic based on these risk factors by using the stepwise logistic regression equation .

Background	This study was undertaken to determine if an AMPA ( LY215490 ) or an NMDA ( MK-801 ) glutamatergic receptor antagonist can reduce urinary tract dysfunctions related to detrusor hyperreflexia and detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia in awake , spinal cord-injured ( SC
Method	Experiments were performed on female Sprague-Dawley rats in which the spinal cord was completely transected at T ( 8-10 ) level , 2-3 weeks prior to performing an intravesical continuous infusion cystometrogram ( CMG ) .
Method	Bladder volume threshold ( VT ) for inducing voiding and voiding efficiency ( VE ) were determined by measuring voided volumes and residual volumes ( RV ) .
Method	After control CMGs were performed , cumulative intravenous doses of LY215490 ( 0.1 , 1 , and 10 mg/kg ) or MK-801 ( 0.03 , 0.3 , and 3 mg/kg ) were administered at 120-min intervals .
Result	03 and 0.3 mg/kg ) did not affect any parameters .
Result	A large dose ( 10 mg/kg ) of LY215490 decreased maximal voiding pressure ( MVP ) by 27 % and increased RV by 119 % and VT by 58 % but did not decrease VE .
Result	The highest cumulative dose ( 3 mg/kg ) of MK-801 significantly increased RV by 134 % and VT by 44 % and markedly decreased VE by 60 % and MVP by 18 % .
Result	The effects of LY215490 to reduce MVP and increase VT without changing VE suggest that an AMPA receptor antagonist might be useful in treating detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia and bladder hypertrophy after SCI .
Result	The effect of MK-801 to markedly reduce VE indicates that NMDA receptor antagonists may exacerbate neurogenic bladder dysfunction in SCI patients .

Background	Atrial fibrosis is an important substrate in atrial fibrillation ( AF ) , particularly in the setting of structural heart disease .
Background	In a canine model , congestive heart failure ( CHF ) produces significant atrial fibrosis and the substrate for sustained AF .
Background	This atrial remodeling is a potential therapeutic target .
Method	The objective of the present study is to evaluate the effects of the antifibrotic drug pirfenidone ( PFD ) on arrhythmogenic atrial remodeling in a canine CHF model .
Method	We studied 15 canines , divided equally into 3 groups : control , CHF canines not treated with PFD , and CHF canines treated with PFD .
Method	CHF was induced by ventricular tachypacing ( 220 bpm for 3 weeks ) , and oral PFD was administered for the 3-week pacing period .
Method	We performed electrophysiology and AF vulnerability studies , atrial fibrosis measurements , and atrial cytokine expression studies .
Result	Only canines in the untreated CHF group developed sustained AF ( > 30 minutes , 4 of 5 canines ; P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Treatment of CHF canines with PFD resulted in an attenuation of arrhythmogenic left atrial remodeling , with a significant reduction in left atrial conduction heterogeneity index ( median [ 25 % to 75 % interquartile range ] 4.96 [ 3.53 to 5.64 ] versus 2.52 [ 2.1
Result	Immunoblotting studies demonstrated the drug 's effects on multiple cytokines , including a reduction in transforming growth factor-beta1 expression .
Result	Treatment of CHF canines with PFD results in significantly reduced arrhythmogenic atrial remodeling and AF vulnerability .
Result	Pharmacological therapy targeted at the fibrotic substrate itself may play an important role in the management of AF .

Background	Who should be the judge of quality care -- the consumer or healthcare professional ?
Background	Traditionally , healthcare providers have decided what services consumers should receive and how consumers ' needs should be met .
Background	Current trends in healthcare delivery are changing this one-sided practice .
Background	Throughout the United States , to determine what constitutes quality care , accrediting bodies , insurers , consumer groups , providers , and governments are collecting and analyzing data on standards for clinical practice , patient outcomes , and perceptions of

Background	To compare the appearance of superficial lymph nodes on standard two-dimensional ( 2D ) ultrasound examination and on three-dimensional ( 3D ) ultrasound examination .
Method	Fifty two lymph nodes ( 35 cervical , 16 axillary , 1 inguinal ) in 52 patients were examined with ultrasound in 3D mode .
Method	In standard 2D grey-scale examination and on a C-plane of 3D mode ( parallel to the surface of the probe ) , the shape of a lymph node and its hilum were assessed .
Method	Final histopathological diagnoses included 36 lymphomas , 11 reactive or inflammatory lymph nodes , 3 metastases and 2 plasmocytoma infiltrations .
Result	The appearance of hilums and lymph nodes as a whole changed on a C-plane of 3D mode ( as compared with 2D presentation ) in 28 % and 37 % , respectively .
Result	The differences in lymph node shape on 2D and 3D ultrasound were apparent in a comparable percentage of reactive lymph nodes ( 45 % ) and lymphomatous lymph nodes ( 39 % ) .
Result	The differences in lymph node hilum shape on 2D and 3D ultrasound applied to 56 % of reactive lymph nodes and 20 % of lymphomatous lymph nodes .
Result	Three-dimensional imaging on a C-plane ( parallel to the surface of the probe ) may supply the examiner with different information concerning the shape of the lymph node and its hilum in comparison to standard 2D ultrasound .
Result	Changes in the shapes of hilum and lymph node occurred in reactive or inflamed lymph nodes as well as in lymphomas .
Result	Clinical significance of this fact demands further investigation .

Background	Previous conflicting results about the prognostic significance of estrogen receptor ( ER ) - beta in breast cancer may be explained by contribution of isoforms , of which five exist .
Method	Our aim was to elucidate the prognostic significance of ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 by immunohistochemistry in a large cohort of breast carcinomas with long-term follow-up .
Method	Tissue microarrays were stained with ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 antibodies and scored as percentage of positive tumor cells and using the Allred system .
Method	Nuclear and cytoplasmic staining was evaluated and correlated with histopathologic characteristics , overall survival ( OS ) , and disease-free survival ( DFS ) .
Result	Nuclear ERbeta2 and ERbeta5 , but not ERbeta1 , significantly correlated with OS ( P = 0.006 , P = 0.039 , and P = 0.099 , respectively ) , and ERbeta2 additionally with DFS ( P = 0.013 ) .
Result	ERbeta2 also predicted response to endocrine therapy ( P = 0.036 ) ; correlated positively with ERalpha , progesterone receptor , androgen receptor , and BRCA1 ; and correlated inversely with metastasis and vascular invasion .
Result	Tumors coexpressing ERbeta2 and ERalpha had better OS and DFS .
Result	Cytoplasmic ERbeta2 expression , alone or combined with nuclear staining , predicted significantly worse OS .
Result	Notably , patients with only cytoplasmic ERbeta2 expression had significantly worse outcome ( P = 0.0014 ) .
Result	This is the first study elucidating the prognostic role of ERbeta1 , ERbeta2 , and ERbeta5 in a large breast cancer series .
Result	ERbeta2 is a powerful prognostic indicator in breast cancer , but nuclear and cytoplasmic expression differentially affect outcome .
Result	Measuring these in clinical breast cancer could provide a more comprehensive picture of patient outcome , complementing ERalpha .

Method	There is limited randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) evidence for compulsory community treatment .
Method	Other study methods may clarify their effectiveness .
Background	We reviewed RCT and non-RCT evidence for the effect of compulsory community treatment on hospital admissions , bed-days , compliance and out-patient contacts .
Method	A systematic review of RCTs , controlled before-and-after ( CBA ) studies , and interrupted time series ( ITS ) analyses .
Method	Meta-analysis of RCTs .
Result	Eight papers covering five studies ( two RCTs and three CBAs ) met inclusion criteria ( total n = 1108 ) .
Result	There was no statistical difference in 12-month admission rates between subjects on involuntary out-patient treatment and controls .
Result	Survival analyses of time to admission were equivocal .
Result	All five studies reported decreases in the number of bed-days following involuntary out-patient treatment but this only reached statistical significance in one situation ; patients receiving the intervention were less likely to have admissions of over 100
Result	There was no difference in treatment adherence between the intervention and control groups in either RCT or two of the CBA studies .
Result	However , the third CBA study reported a statistically significant increase of nearly five visits in the mean number of overall contacts in the involuntary out-patient treatment group .
Result	The evidence for involuntary out-patient treatment in reducing either admissions or bed-days is very limited .
Result	It therefore can not be seen as a less restrictive alternative to admission .
Result	Other effects are uncertain .
Result	Evaluation of a wide range of outcomes should be included if this type of legislation is introduced .

Background	A functional capacity evaluation ( FCE ) is a detailed examination and evaluation that objectively measures the individual 's current level of safe functional abilities , primarily within the context of the demands of competitive employment .
Background	It measures the ability to perform functional or work-related tasks and predicts the potential to sustain these tasks over a defined time-frame .
Background	Measurements of function from an FCE are compared to the physical demands of a job or other functional activities , and are used to make return-to-work/activity decisions , disability determinations , or to generate a rehabilitation plan .
Background	Scientific evidence on validity and reliability is limited so far .
Background	An FCE is time-consuming and can not be recommended as a routine evaluation .

Background	Serotonin abnormalities may be involved in the etiopathogenesis of obsessive-compulsive disorder ( OCD ) .
Background	The silent G-to-C substitution at nucleotide 861 of the coding region of the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) receptor gene may be associated with liability to OCD .
Method	The aim of this study was to investigate this association in an Italian OCD study group .
Method	Genotyping for 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) was performed for 79 nuclear families of probands with OCD .
Method	The transmission/disequilibrium test was used to determine transmission of the alleles from parents to offspring .
Result	Of the 79 families , 48 were informative for the analysis , i.e. , both parents were genotyped for 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) , and at least one parent was heterozygous .
Result	No preferential transmission of either allele of the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) gene was observed .
Result	These data do not support a role for the 5-HT ( 1Dbeta ) receptor gene in conferring susceptibility to OCD .

Method	One hundred thirty-four patients suspected of having pancreas cancer successfully underwent gray scale ultrasound examination of the pancreas .
Result	The prospective ultrasound findings were correlated with the final diagnoses , laparotomy findings , and pathology findings .
Result	Fifty-four patients had pancreas cancer , confirmed by resection or biopsy in all cases .
Result	On ultrasonography , the pancreas was correctly reported to have abnormalities in sixty-one of seventy-eight patients ( 78 per cent ) and correctly reported to have no abnornalities in thirty-eight of fifty-six patients ( 68 per cent ) .
Result	A correct ultrasound diagnosis of pancreas cancer was made for forty-four of fifty-six patients ( 81 per cent ) , and there were thirteen false-positive reports .
Result	Ninety-four percent of cancers confined to the head of the pancreas and 70 per cent of cancers at other locations within the gland were detected by ultrasound examination .
Result	The correct ultrasound diagnosis was given for fifteen of seventeen patients with resectable pancreas cancer , the degree of associated pancreatitis ranging from minimal to severe .
Result	Analysis of the predictive values of positive and negative ultrasound examinations suggests that this test could be used to screen a population of patients with symptoms mildly suggestive of pancreas cancer .
Result	The importance of preselecting the level of confidence of a positive test result , a , ove which further investigation is indicated , is emphasized .

Background	This article addresses measures of importance to women of reproductive age in the first National Healthcare Quality Report ( NHQR ) and National Healthcare Disparities Report ( NHDR ) .
Method	The authors review each of the 4 components of quality of care effectiveness , safety , timeliness , and patient centeredness .
Method	The effectiveness component topics with relevance to women of childbearing age include breast cancer , cervical cancer , HIV , AIDS , mental health , and maternity care .
Method	The safety component includes 3 relevant measures of obstetric trauma .
Method	The quality aspects of timeliness of care and patient centeredness will be discussed in terms of women , although the NHQR and NHDR did not include them as a separate topic because the data were so limited regarding women .
Result	There is a foundation of knowledge about many aspects of quality health care for women of reproductive age .
Result	However , gaps are evident in some measures , usually due to insufficient data .
Result	Further development of the measure set would benefit from additional process and outcome variables that can link screening , diagnosis , and treatment with health outcomes .
Result	Such linkages will expand our knowledge and capability to improve health outcomes for women of reproductive age .

Background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) subjects at Glasgow Outcome Scale levels 3 ( severe disability ) , 4 ( moderate disability ) , 5 ( good recovery ) , and an other-injury control group ( OIC ) were compared in terms of neuropsychological , psychosocial , and vocational fun
Method	Subjects were a sample of 100 patients with a moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) and a matched sample of 30 other-injury control subjects ( OIC ) enrolled in the UCLA Brain Injury Research Center study of TBI outcome .
Result	Overall , the results showed a systematic decrease in mean neuropsychological test performance as a function of increasing GOS severity , as well as an increased prevalence of symptoms of depression and lower ratings on measures assessing employability and
Result	TBI patients in the ` severe ' and ` moderate disability ' groups were distinctly inferior to the ` good recovery ' and ` OIC ' groups , who were quite similar to each other in terms of cognitive , psychosocial , and vocational outcomes .
Result	The results demonstrate overall support for the predictive and concurrent validity of the GOS 6 months post injury .
Result	Despite these results , which strengthen the utility and appeal of the GOS for multicentre studies , concerns still remain regarding GOS category 4 ( moderate disability ) , which was shown to lack sufficient discriminability in this study .

Method	In a prospective randomised study with a 2-year follow-up , 103 patients were randomised to anterior cervical decompression and fusion ( ACDF ) with a cervical carbon-fibre intervertebral fusion cage ( CIFC ) or the Cloward procedure ( CP ) .
Background	The purpose of the present study was to report predictors for fusion and also to investigate the importance of radiological variables for the clinical outcome .
Method	Gender , age , smoking habits , disc height , segmental kyphosis and type of surgical procedure were used as independent ( before surgery ) variables in a multiple regression model .
Method	Male gender , one-level surgery and CP treatment were significant predictors of fusion and explained 14 % of the variability of fusion status at follow-up .
Method	Number of levels operated on , however , did not influence the clinical outcome .
Result	Fifty-two per cent of the women and 17 % of the men in the CIFC group , and 25 % of the women and 8 % of the men in the CP group , had pseudarthrosis .
Result	Although patients with a healed fusion had significantly less pain intensity than patients with pseudarthrosis , radiological variables explained only 4 % of the variability of pain at follow-up .
Result	Apart from a significant correlation between preoperative kyphosis and neck disability index at follow-up , no significant correlation between either postoperative kyphosis or preoperative or postoperative disc height and clinical outcome was found .
Result	Neither degree of segmental kyphosis nor disc height was different between patients with healed fusion and pseudarthrosis .
Result	One can conclude that male gender and type of surgery were significant predictors for a healed fusion and that pseudarthrosis affected outcome .
Result	In contrast to the commonly held view based mainly on theoretical considerations , no effect on clinical outcome could be demonstrated for segmental kyphosis and disc height at follow-up .
Result	Overall , the study shows that the importance of radiological factors as predictors for fusion as well as clinical outcome is limited .

Background	Depression is the most prevalent psychiatric disorder in the elderly and several studies indicate that 10-15 % of persons over 65 years suffer from significant depressive symptoms .
Background	Despite the high prevalence , most cases of depression in the elderly remain unrecognized and untreated , maybe because of a different pattern of symptoms across age groups .
Method	The objective of the study was to compare symptomatology and diagnostic profile between younger and elderly DSM-III and DSM-III-R major depressed inpatients and to advise an appropriate depression scale for the elderly .
Method	The study covers 461 depressed inpatients evaluated with the Hamilton Depression Scale and the Newcastle 1965 Scale .
Method	To find differences between younger and elderly patients , the symptomatology was analyzed stepwise by principal component analyses , latent structure analyses and single item analyses .
Result	No clinically significant differences in symptomatology between younger and elderly depressed patients were found .
Result	The DSM-IV concept of Major Depression and the ICD-10 criteria for depression was not influenced by patients ' age .
Result	All patients were hospitalized and mainly endogenously depressed and generalization of the results to other populations should be made with caution .
Result	Only pretreatment data was analyzed .
Result	The DSM-IV concept of Major Depression and the ICD-10 criteria for depression can be used without modification for age .

Background	The purpose of this study was to examine symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) in a community sample of low-income pregnant women who met the DSM-IV diagnostic criteria for the disorder .
Method	Pregnant women ( N = 948 ) were screened for trauma , PTSD , depression , and co-occurring illicit substance use .
Method	PTSD symptoms were compared in traumatized pregnant women and a sample of nonpregnant traumatized women from the National Comorbidity Survey .
Result	Suicidal thoughts and a high degree of psychiatric comorbidity were common in pregnant women with PTSD .
Result	Pregnant women were selectively and significantly less likely to endorse reexperiencing symptoms of PTSD ( 29.5 % , N = 82 ) , compared to nonpregnant women ( 79.4 % , N = 464 ) .
Result	PTSD in pregnancy was associated with comorbidity , poor health behaviors , and lower recall of memory-related PTSD symptoms .
Result	Further prospective study is needed .

Background	Health-related quality of life ( HRQL ) is an important consideration in the management of patients with vertebral fractures .
Method	The purpose of this study was to examine patient-related factors that contribute to HRQL after vertebral fractures , including co-morbidities , medications , fracture history , family disease history , demographics , exercise , education and living environment .
Method	A total of 1,129 post-menopausal women ( mean age 67.2 , SD 11.9 years ) was studied from the Canadian Database of Osteoporosis and Osteopenia ( CANDOO ) .
Method	HRQL was measured using the mini-osteoporosis quality of life questionnaire ( mini-OQLQ ) .
Method	Separate multivariable linear regression analyses [ parameter estimates and corresponding 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) ] were performed for each of the five mini-OQLQ domains symptoms , physical functioning , emotional functioning , activities of daily living and leisure domains .
Result	A strong positive association was found between HRQL and post-secondary education , a family history of osteoporosis , working and thiazide therapy .
Result	Exercise improved HRQL ; however , several hours a week were required to be meaningful .
Result	Living in long-term care had the most marked negative effect on HRQL .
Result	Smoking , past surgery of the hip or spine , sedatives , anticonvulsants , atherosclerotic disease and hypertension were also associated with a substantially decreased HRQL across several domains .
Result	Calcium channel-blockers , chemotherapy , corticosteroids , diabetes , migraines , the number of non-vertebral fractures and falls had a negative impact on selected domains .
Result	We demonstrated that several modifiable factors influence HRQL in patients with vertebral fractures , and physicians should be aware of these and other markers of reduced HRQL to enhance patient care .

Background	Colorectal cancer is an important disease in the Australian community .
Background	Whilst there has been much discussion about the appropriate management of local disease , particularly with respect to the issue of adjuvant therapy , there has been relatively little local discussion of treatment options in metastatic colorectal cancer .
Background	The critical principles underlying treatment in this setting are briefly outlined in the present article , indicating wherever possible what options could be considered standard , and based on the available literature , which approaches must still be conside
Result	Overall , the results of treatment in this group of patients remain poor .
Result	Further clinical trials are required to address the issues affecting patients with metastatic colorectal cancer .

Background	To evaluate the effect of group educational interventions in type-2 diabetes patients .
Background	To analyse what kind of group intervention has the best long-term effects .
Method	Systematic review .
Method	Review of electronic data bases CENTRAL , MEDLINE , EMBASE , CINAHL , and PASCAL , and of the bibliographic references of the studies selected .
Method	Contacts with experts to locate non-published articles .
Method	Selection of studies .
Method	Randomised clinical studies with controls and quasi-experimental studies that evaluate group education interventions aimed at type-2 diabetes patients over 18 years old .

Background	The prognosis for survival has improved dramatically for cancer patients over the past three decades .
Background	Advances in systemic therapy have prolonged survival even in those who can not be cured .
Background	The importance of managing spinal column disease and protecting the spinal cord has subsequently been amplified .
Background	Almost any patient presenting with detectable neurologic function and enough physical reserve to withstand an operation will benefit from a spinal stabilization , pain relief , and neural decompression ; there are few exceptions .
Background	Advances in surgical technique and biomaterials have not only improved survival and functional outcome , they have diminished many of the postoperative complications that plagued earlier treatment techniques .
Background	Methods of preventing or correcting iatrogenic deformity have improved outcome .
Background	Newer fixation techniques promise to eliminate many of the causes of hardware and fixation failure previously seen .
Background	Improved medical management , antibiotics , and preoperative planning , along with techniques of preoperative embolization and early postoperative mobilization have made surgical management much less risky .
Background	Vertebrectomy , considered a last alternative in the past , is now coming to be seen as the conservative approach to tumor management in many situations .
Background	Appropriate surgical treatment can have a dramatic impact on function and outcome in patients with tumors of the spinal column , and should never be dismissed as an option without serious consideration .
Background	Advances in fixation systems , local and systemic therapy , and in our understanding of the biology of cancer promise even greater improvements for the future .

Method	A quasi-experimental design was used to compare the Symptom Checklist 90-Revised profiles ( SCL-90-R ) from a group of patients with whiplash injuries ( n = 67 ) and a group with mixed musculoskeletal pain ( n = 91 ) .
Method	To test the discriminant validity of the characteristic SCL-90-R whiplash profile as proposed by Wallis and Bogduk using a multivariate statistical technique .
Background	On the basis of two studies by themselves and their colleagues , Wallis and Bogduk proposed a characteristic SCL-90-R profile evident in samples of patients with whiplash injuries .
Background	Their assertion has not been tested empirically in any published studies .
Method	The participants in this study consisted of 158 patients at a rehabilitation hospital who completed the SCL-90-R under standard instructions and subsequently were diagnosed by a team comprising a chiropractor , physical therapist , and physician .
Method	The participants were categorized as having whiplash-associated disorders or pain caused by other musculoskeletal injuries .
Method	A profile analysis following Hotelling 's method was used to determine the comparability of SCL-90-R profiles from the two groups .
Result	The profile analysis showed no statistically significant differences between the groups with regard to either the shape or the overall elevation of their psychological profiles .
Result	The SCL-90-R profiles from both groups were similar to those reported from other chronic pain syndromes , with elevations on the Somatization , Depression , Obsessive-Compulsive , and Psychoticism scales .
Result	The current study failed to support the validity of a distinctive SCL-90-R profile for patients with whiplash injuries .
Result	Instead , the results suggest that the psychological consequences of experiencing chronic pain from whiplash-associated disorders are similar to the psychological consequences of chronic pain from other musculoskeletal injuries .

Background	To review variations in outcomes in schizophrenia across individual , historical , and cross-cultural boundaries , as well as within specific domains of functioning .
Method	Research literature on the outcomes of schizophrenia appearing within the last 8 years was reviewed .
Result	First , a review of follow-up studies published in the developed world suggests that heterogeneity in outcome across individuals with schizophrenia remains the rule , with affective symptoms , later and acute onset , and responsiveness to biological treatment
Result	Negative symptoms are associated with poor outcome , cognitive impairments , and incapacity in social and work domains .
Result	Deterioration appears to occur within the first few months of onset if not already in the prodrome , with recent early-course studies finding longer duration of untreated psychosis associated with insidious onset , negative symptoms , social and work incapac
Result	Second , a review of recent cross-cultural and historical studies provides evidence that outcome varies across time and place , schizophrenia having a more favourable outcome in the developing world and becoming a more benign disorder over the course of thi
Result	Third , a review of studies of the domains of functioning within individuals identifies 4 relatively independent dimensions of depression and negative , psychotic , and disorganized symptoms .
Result	Cognitive deficits , which are associated with negative symptoms , also constitute a relatively stable dimension over time , showing neither marked deterioration nor improvement once established early in the course of disorder .
Result	The early appearance and stability over time of negative symptoms and cognitive impairments call for assertive intervention efforts early in the course of disorder to prevent chronicity and prolonged disability .

Background	Crisis resolution teams ( CRTs ) are being introduced throughout England , but their evidence base is limited .
Method	To compare outcomes of crises before and after introduction of a CRT .
Method	A new methodology was developed for identification and operational definition of crises .
Method	A quasi-experimental design was used to compare cohorts presenting just before and just after a CRT was established .
Result	Following introduction of the CRT , the admission rate in the 6 weeks after a crisis fell from 71 % to 49 % ( OR 0.38 , 95 % CI 0.21-0 .70 ) .
Result	A difference of 5.6 points ( 95 % CI 2.0-8 .3 ) on mean Client Satisfaction Questionnaire ( CSQ-8 ) score favoured the CRT .
Result	These findings remained significant after adjustment for baseline differences .
Result	No clear difference emerged in involuntary hospitalisations , symptoms , social functioning or quality of life .
Result	CRTs may prevent some admissions and patients prefer them , although other outcomes appear unchanged in the short term .

Background	Few options are available for patients with severe heart failure that is unresponsive to therapy with digoxin , diuretics , and vasodilators .
Method	The clinical responses and predictors of survival were studied in 41 consecutive patients with New York Heart Association ( NYHA ) class IV heart failure during long-term oral enoximone therapy ( mean dose 232 + / - 15 mg/day ) .
Method	The mean age was 60 + / - 1 years , and the initial left ventricular ejection fraction was 0.19 + / - 0.01 .
Method	The cause of heart failure was either coronary artery disease ( n = 23 ) or dilated cardiomyopathy ( n = 18 ) .
Result	Symptomatic improvement occurred in the majority ( 83 % ) of patients ; 24 % improved two or more NYHA classes .
Result	Although the 12-month mortality rate for the entire group was high ( 54 + / - 8 % ) , a subgroup of patients with dilated cardiomyopathy achieved a sustained benefit with a decrease in symptoms > 1 NYHA class , fewer hospitalizations , and a survival rate at 24 m
Result	Multivariate analysis identified the cause of heart failure , left ventricular ejection fraction , and clinical improvement within 60 days of enoximone therapy as predictors of a favorable long-term outcome .
Result	The presence of coronary artery disease was most predictive of early mortality ( p < 0.0002 ) , with only 5 % of patients surviving > 18 months compared to 66 % of those with dilated cardiomyopathy .
Result	Median survival rates were 132 + / - 31 and 921 + / - 214 days ( p < 0.001 ) for the coronary artery disease and dilated cardiomyopathy populations , respectively .
Result	Oral enoximone can provide symptomatic improvement and a palliative option for the majority of patients with refractory heart failure resulting from cardiomyopathy .

Background	Microgliosis is implicated in the pathophysiology of several neurological disorders , including neuropathic pain .
Background	Consequently , perturbation of microgliosis is a mechanistic and drug development target in neuropathic pain , which highlights the requirement for specific , sensitive and reproducible methods of microgliosis measurement .
Method	In this study , we used the spinal microgliosis associated with L5 spinal nerve transection and minocycline-induced attenuation thereof to ( 1 ) evaluate novel software based semi-quantitative image analysis paradigms for the assessment of immunohistochemical images .
Method	Microgliosis was revealed by immunoreactivity to OX42 .
Method	Several image analysis paradigms were assessed and compared to a previously validated subjective categorical rating scale .
Result	This comparison revealed that grey scale measurement of the proportion of a defined area of spinal cord occupied by OX42 immunoreactive cells is a robust image analysis paradigm .
Result	( 2 ) Develop and validate a flow cytometric approach for quantification of spinal microgliosis .
Result	The flow cytometric technique reliably quantified microgliosis in spinal cord cell suspensions , using OX42 and ED9 immunoreactivity to identify microglia .
Result	The results suggest that image analysis of immunohistochemical revelation of microgliosis reliably detects the spinal microgliosis in response to peripheral nerve injury and pharmacological attenuation thereof .
Result	In addition , flow cytometry provides an alternative approach for quantitative analysis of spinal microgliosis elicited by nerve injury .

Background	Adequate and intensive rehabilitation is an important requirement for successful Total Knee Arthroplasty .
Background	The primary focus of early rehabilitation is ambulation of patients and regaining range of motion in the knee.Although research suggests that Continuous Passive Motion should be implemented in the first rehabilitation phase following surgery , there is sub
Method	A Cochrane review on this topic concluded that short-term use of CPM leads to greater short-term range of motion .
Method	It also suggested , however , that future research should concentrate on the treatment period during which CPM should be administered .
Method	In a randomised controlled trial we intend to investigate the efficacy of prolonged use of a continuous passive motion ( CPM ) device in the home situation as an adjunct to standardised physical therapy .
Method	The experimental treatment is compared to standardised physical therapy , in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee undergoing Total Knee Arthroplasty ( TKA ) .
Method	Efficacy will be assessed in terms of faster improvements in range of motion and functional recovery.Seventy patients with knee osteoarthritis undergoing TKA and experiencing early postoperative flexion impairment ( less than 80 degrees of knee flexion at the time of discharge ) will be randomised over two treatment groups , a usual care group and an experimental group .
Method	The experimental group will receive CPM + physiotherapy for 17 consecutive days after surgery , whereas the usual care group will receive the same treatment during the in-hospital phase ( i.e. about four days ) , followed by physical therapy alone ( usual care ) in the first two weeks after hospital discharge.From 18 days to three months after discharge , both groups will receive standardised PT .
Method	The primary focus of rehabilitation will be functional recovery ( e.g. ambulation ) and regaining range of motion ( ROM ) in the knee .
Result	Because restricted knee ROM affects functional activities , knee ROM and knee function are regarded as the primary indicators of successful TKA .
Result	Potential effects of the intervention under study include rapid return of knee flexion accompanied by earlier return to functional activities of daily life .
Result	If patients benefit significantly from prolonged CPM use , this treatment should be added to the standard PT treatment at home.We expect the additional home CPM programme to be more effective than the usual physiotherapy programme , resulting in a differenc
Result	This clinically important difference , with a possible flexion ROM of about 100 degrees , is expected to lead to better functioning in activities of daily life , like walking , and earlier ability to cycle .
Result	These advantages should result in earlier and increasing independence .

Background	The authors examined the relationship between coping style and perceived quality of life in patients with non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus .
Method	Diabetic patients ( N = 123 ) and nondiabetic comparison patients ( N = 124 ) treated at a Portuguese health center completed the Nottingham Health Profile , a quality-of-life measure .
Method	The diabetic patients also completed the Coping Responses Inventory , a measure of coping styles .
Result	In both groups , female subjects had poorer quality-of-life ratings than male subjects .
Result	Diabetic patients were more likely to regard diabetes and the consequent changes in lifestyle as a threat than as a challenge .
Result	A greater proportion of diabetic patients used avoidance coping styles , which overall were related to worse quality of life , than used active confrontation coping styles .
Result	Coping style was significantly correlated with several dimensions of quality of life in diabetic patients .

Background	Home blood pressure monitoring ( HBPM ) improves blood pressure control , but little is known about its effects on medication adherence .
Method	The authors conducted a systematic review of the published literature on the effects of HBPM on medication adherence .
Method	Of 440 abstracts and citations reviewed , 11 randomized control trials met predefined criteria .
Method	Six of the 11 randomized controlled trials reported statistically significant improvement in medication adherence ; 84 % of these were complex interventions involving the use of HBPM in combination with other adherence-enhancing strategies such as patient c
Result	Interventions conducted in primary care settings were not effective compared with those that occurred in hospital-based clinics or nonclinical settings .
Result	The data on the effects of HBPM on patients ' medication-taking behavior are mixed .
Result	Future studies should investigate the independent effects of HBPM in primary care practices where the majority of hypertensive patients receive their care .

Background	To compare the methodologies and results of research across five diagnostic groups in which there was expected to be a high prevalence of depression and occupational disability .
Method	A review of research published since 1994 was carried out concerning depression and occupational disability in five diagnostic groups : Major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , spinal cord injuries ( SCI ) , traumatic brain injuries ( TBI ) , chronic back pain ( CP ) and
Method	Prospective longitudinal designs were mostly undertaken in MDD studies .
Method	Diagnostic interview schedules were utilized in most MDD studies whereas self-report inventories that tend to confound somatic and depressive symptoms were mostly used in CP , SCI , TBI and MI/CABG studies .
Result	In longitudinal MDD studies both depression and occupational disability were related to access to enhanced primary care treatment .
Result	On the other hand , CP research reported different results concerning the strength of depressive symptoms , cognitive and psychosocial factors in predicting occupational disability .
Result	Different trends across diagnostic groups were evident in relation to depression , occupational disability , co-morbidity , socio-demographic factors and psychosocial resources .
Result	Co-morbid , socio-demographic and psychosocial factors provide a framework from which to identify those at greater risk of depression and occupational disability .
Result	However , more CP , SCI , TBI and MI/CABG studies with diagnostic schedules , prospective designs and longer follow-up are required .

Background	Although several reports characterize pain associated with adult-onset spinal cord injury ( SCI ) , little is known about the incidence and etiology of pain associated with pediatric-onset SCI .
Method	The purpose of this study was to assess the incidence and type of chronic pain in the pediatric SCI population and to evaluate the resulting impact on activities of daily living ( ADLs ) .
Method	Patients attending clinic in a pediatric tertiary care facility in a major metropolitan area having sustained an SCI during childhood were asked to participate .
Method	Participants were assessed using the Adolescent Pediatric Pain Tool and the Lansky Play Performance Scale , 2 standardized assessments of pain and function , respectively .
Method	In addition , a questionnaire designed to characterize the population and the types of pain reported was administered .
Method	Thirty-one participants were enrolled with an age range at the time of injury from 5 months to 18 years .
Result	Of this population , 65 % reported chronic pain .
Result	The pain reports were classified as either nocioceptive ( 48 % ) or neuropathic ( 19 % ) .
Result	Interference with ADLs and play was present in only 1 participant .
Result	Based on these pilot data , pain associated with a pediatric-onset SCI is common .
Result	The incidence of pain in this study approached the reported incidence of chronic pain in adult-onset SCI .
Result	In the present population , nocioceptive pain was more common than was neuropathic pain .
Result	These data suggest that although common , chronic pain associated with childhood SCI has a significantly smaller impact on daily activities than that reported in the literature for adult-onset SCI .

Method	( 1 )
Background	To determine patterns of intrinsic fluctuations in spasticity , using repeated self-ratings , in subjects with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) ; and ( 2 ) To determine the relation between self-ratings of spasticity using a visual analogue scale ( VAS ) and clinical ra
Method	Part I : observational , prospective cross-sectional study ; part II : experimental , prospective longitudinal study .
Method	Outpatient clinic of the Karolinska Hospital , Stockholm , Sweden .
Method	Forty-five persons with SCI ( 39 men , 6 women ) ; mean age at injury , 26 yrs ; mean time since injury , 11 yrs .
Method	Repetitive passive movements of standardized range of motion in three different body positions , performed by two motorized tables .
Method	VAS ratings of spasticity , every other hour when awake , and of movement-provoked spasticity , rated before and after each treatment session , and MAS ratings of movement-provoked spasticity , before and after each treatment session .
Result	The spasticity of cervical SCI subjects fluctuated significantly ( p < .05 ) during the day , unlike the spasticity of thoracic SCI subjects .
Result	Immediately after intervention with passive movements , spasticity ratings in thoracic motor complete SCI patients decreased by 11 to 14 mm ( 90 % , p < .001 ) as self-rated on VAS and by 1 to 2 grades ( 50 % , p < .001 ) as measured with MAS .
Result	A 30 % ( p < .018 ) decrease in VAS values of intrinsic pattern of spasticity was maintained over time when treatment was given regularly and was maintained for at least 1 week after discontinuation of treatment .
Result	VAS ratings correlated significantly with MAS ratings ( r = .44 to .62 , p < .001 ) .
Result	Repetitive passive movement intervention decreased spasticity when performed regularly , as assessed by VAS and MAS ratings .
Result	VAS and MAS ratings were significantly correlated .
Result	It is recommended that SCI patients repeatedly rate their spasticity to establish a baseline before and to track changes after interventions aimed at reducing spasticity .
Result	The time of day when spasticity is measured seems more important in cervically injured individuals , because of their more pronounced intrinsic fluctuations .

Background	Posttraumatic syrinxes may extend many cord segments rostral to a spinal cord injury ( SCI ) and significantly dilate the spinal cord , yet few neurologic deficits may be noted .
Background	Careful physical examination may reveal ascending loss of pain and temperature without evident functional motor decline .
Background	We present a 49-year-old man with T4 paraplegia and a large posttraumatic syrinx who died 3 weeks after syringoperitoneal shunting .
Result	Neuropathologic study revealed a large bilateral syrinx cavity from T1 to C6 that tapered to a small unilateral syrinx at C2 .
Result	Light microscopy of sections from T1 to C2 showed massive loss of intermediate to intermedio-lateral gray neurons and moderate reduction of motoneurons at T1 to C6 levels .
Result	Despite these findings , manual muscle testing results remained normal for wrist extensors and elbow extensors , and the patient continued to perform independent sliding board transfers .
Result	We conclude that this large progressive syrinx did not merely dissect neural elements apart but caused extensive neuronal damage .
Result	Loss of interneurons was evident in spinal segments with preserved strength and function .
Result	Possible mechanisms to explain the relatively minimal clinical deficits in view of the neuronal loss are discussed .

Background	Several artemisinin ( qinghaosu ) derivatives have been developed and are in use as antimalarial drugs but scant animal or human toxicity data are available .
Method	We noted a progressive syndrome of clinical neurological defects with cardio-respiratory collapse and death in 5/6 dogs dosed daily for 8 d with intramuscular arteether ( AE ) at 20 mg/kg/d in a pharmacokinetic study .
Result	Neurological findings included gait disturbances , loss of spinal reflexes , pain response reflexes and prominent loss of brain-stem and eye reflexes .
Result	Electrocardiography showed prolongation of the QT interval corrected for rate ( QTc ) .
Result	Prominent neuropathic lesions were sharply limited to the pons and medulla .
Result	Neurological injury , graded by a pathologist ` blinded ' to dose group , showed a dose-related region-specific injury which was most pronounced in the pons and medulla in all animals .
Result	Rats treated with AE and artemether ( AM ) at 12.5 to 50 mg/kg/d for 28 d confirmed clinical neurological abnormalities with high doses ( > 25 mg/kg/d ) after 6-14 d.
Result	Neuropathological examination of rat brain sections at 5 levels from the rostral cerebrum to the caudal medulla showed a dose-related pattern of injury characterized by hyalinized neuron cell bodies and loss of Nissl substance ; changes congruent with thos
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	Osteolytic bone destruction , caused by the aberrant production and activation of osteoclasts , results in significant morbidity for patients with multiple myeloma ( MM ) .
Background	Pamidronate [ ( 3-amino-1-hydroxypropylidene ) -1,1 - bis-phosphonate ] inhibits osteoclastic activity and reduces bone resorption .
Method	Ran
Method	to VMCP/VBAP alternating regimen .
Method	Nine patients with stage III myeloma and osteolytic lesions ( 3 female , 6 male , median age 57 years , range 52-67 , with monoclonal protein : IgG-7 , IgA-2 ) were randomly assigned ( 1:1:1 ratio ) to treatment with either 4 or 8 mg of zoledronic acid via 15-minut
Method	All patients have received 500 mg of calcium supplements and 500 IU of vit.D , orally , once daily , for the duration of administration of study medication .
Method	In extension phase of the study ( June 2000-April 2002 ) patients did not received bisphosphonates .
Method	In 7 patients 18 cycles of assessed treatment was administered to each of them and one patient received 16 cycles .
Result	One patient died after receiving of 12 pamidronate therapy cycles at 11 month of the trial duration ( and at 49 month since MM diagnosis and anti-tumour treatment ) .
Result	The patient 's death occurred during the progression of plasma cell proliferation due to acute left ventricle cardiac failure .
Result	During the 12-month-period of bisphosphonate treatment skeletal related events ( SRE ) and progression of osteolysis occurred with the same frequency in 3 treatment groups .
Result	One patient experienced spinal cord compression and received radiation to bone and 2 patients experienced vertebral fracture .
Result	Time from study entry to the first SRE was 304 days in pamidronate and 366 and 392 days in 4 and 8 mg zoledronic acid group , respectively .
Result	The skeletal morbidity rate was identical in all treatment groups .
Result	Single hypocalcemic events occurred in 2 patients , mild hypertransaminasemia was observed in 3 , worsening of renal function parameters in 2 patients ( transient in one of them ) .
Result	Muscular pain and fever up to 39 degrees C ( transient and self-limiting `` flu-like '' symptoms ) occurred in 6 patients after several or some dozens of hours from study drug administration .
Result	Adverse events were similar in nature and frequency with zoledronic acid and pamidronate and were experienced by a similar proportion of patients in each treatment group .
Result	Median time of patient 's observation duration after completing of administered treatment with zoledronic acid and pamidronate amounts to 20 months .
Result	At present actual median survival time of analysed patients since MM diagnosis is 42 months , since the beginning of treatment with pamidronate and zoledronic acid -- 33 months , and since completing treatment -- 20 months and is similar in 3 treatment groups .
Result	As was shown in our single center study in MM patients the safety and efficacy of pamidronate 90 mg and zoledronic acid 4 mg and 8 mg in monthly i.v. infusion are comparable .
Result	Thus the recommended dosage of zoledronic acid is 4 mg administered as a 15 minute i.v. infusion at intervals of 3 to 4 weeks .

Background	Comparison of effectiveness between the pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy ( `` pylorus-preserving Whipple '' [ PPW ] ) and the classic Whipple ( CW ) procedure .
Method	A systematic literature search ( Medline , Embase , Cochrane Library , Biosis , Science Citation Index , Ovid Journals ) was performed to identify all eligible articles .
Method	Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) comparing PPW versus CW for periampullary and pancreatic carcinoma were eligible for inclusion .
Method	The methodologic quality of included studies was evaluated independently by 2 authors .
Method	Quantitative data on perioperative parameters ( blood loss , transfusion , operation time , and length of hospital stay ) , mortality , morbidity , and survival were extracted from included studies for meta-analysis .
Method	Pooled estimates of overall treatment effect were calculated using a random effects model .
Result	In total , 1235 abstracts were retrieved and checked for eligibility and 6 RCTs finally included .
Result	The critical appraisal revealed vast heterogeneity with respect to methodologic quality and outcome parameters .
Result	The comparison of overall in-hospital mortality ( odds ratio , 0.49 ; 95 % CI , 0.17 to 1.40 ; P = 0.18 ) , morbidity ( odds ratio 0.89 ; 95 % CI , 0.48 to 1.62 ; P = 0.69 ) , and survival ( hazard ratio , 0.74 ; 95 % CI , 0.52 to 1.07 ; P = 0.11 ) showed no significant differ
Result	However , operating time ( weighted mean difference , -68.26 minutes ; 95 % CI , -105.70 to -30.83 ; P = 0.0004 ) , and intraoperative blood loss ( weighted mean difference , -766 mL ; 95 % CI , -965.26 to -566.74 ; P = 0.00001 ) were significantly reduced in the PPW gro
Result	Hence , in the absence of relevant differences in mortality , morbidity , and survival , the PPW seems to be as effective as the CW .
Result	Given obvious clinical and methodological interstudy heterogeneity , efforts should be intensified in the future to perform high quality RCTs of complex surgical interventions on the basis of well defined outcome parameters .

Background	Although several ECG criteria have been described for the differential diagnosis of tachycardias with a wide QRS complex , their applicability in patients with preexisting intraventricular conduction defects ( IVCDs ) has been questioned .
Background	The specificity of previously described criteria in this context is unknown .
Method	We analyzed prospectively the specificity of the QRS morphological criteria previously described in ECGs during sinus rhythm of 232 patients with IVCD .
Result	Only 5 of 12 analyzed criteria had a specificity > or = 0.90 among our patients : ( 1 ) a triphasic configuration ( Rsr ' or Rr ' ) QRS complex in V1 in the presence of a right bundle-branch block morphology ( BBBM ) ; ( 2 ) a QS , QR , or R QRS pattern in V6 in the pr
Result	The following criteria -- QRS duration > 140 ms ; a left axis with right BBBM , right superior axis with right BBBM , monophasic or biphasic R wave in V1 with right BBBM , and a relation R/S < 1 with right BBBM ; an R > 30 ms in lead V1 or V2 with left BBBM ,
Result	Most of the previously described morphological criteria favoring ventricular tachycardia are present in a substantial percentage of patients with IVCD during sinus rhythm .
Result	These findings suggest a limited applicability of these criteria in this subset of patients .

Background	Selective exposure to x-irradiation during infancy , from postnatal days ( PND ) 2-11 in the rat , results in severe hippocampal granule cell hypoplasia .
Background	Preweanling ( PND 17-18 ) rats , which suffer such hippocampal granule-cell agenesis , show deficits in patterned single alternation ( PSA ) , a form of memory-based learning .
Background	Deficits in short-term memory along with increased arousal have been suggested as characteristic of children diagnosed with attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
Background	We report here on the ameliorating effects of D-amphetamine , a drug commonly used in the treatment of ADHD , before Ritalin , on PSA , after infantile ( PND 2-15 ) exposure to x-irradiation .
Result	After i.p. injections of 0.3 mg/kg D-amphetamine , the onset and magnitude of the PSA memory-based discrimination in the x-irradiated preweanling rats was restored to about the level of controls .
Result	These results , showing alleviation of x-irradiation-related deficits in short-term memory by D-amphetamine injections , along with our earlier and present results , showing substantial deficits after x-irradiation alone , encourage the hypothesis that hippoc

Background	A hypothesis is presented concerning the neuronal mechanisms which subserve the sympathetically maintained pains such as causalgia and reflex sympathetic dystrophy .
Background	The hypothesis rests on two assumptions : that a high rate of firing in spinal wide-dynamic-range ( WDR ) or multireceptive neurons results in painful sensations ; and that nociceptor responses associated with trauma can produce long-term sensitization of WDR
Background	The hypothesis states that chronic sympathetically maintained pains are mediated by activity in low-threshold , myelinated mechanoreceptors , that this afferent activity results from sympathetic efferent actions upon the receptors or upon afferent fibers en
Background	This hypothesis is based on known characteristics of these neuronal populations studied in experimental animals and on the observed sensory disturbances reported in patients successfully treated with sympathetic blocks .
Background	This hypothesis does not require nerve injury or dystrophic tissue .
Background	It explains both the continuous pain and the allodynia that are common to these syndromes and their abolition by sympathetic block .
Background	Specific changes are proposed in the diagnosis and treatment of post-traumatic pains .

Background	The UK dietary guidelines for cardiovascular disease acknowledge the importance of long-chain omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) - a component of fish oils - in reducing heart disease risk .
Background	At the time , it was recommended that the average n-3 PUFA intake should be increased from 0.1 to 0.2 g day ( -1 ) .
Background	However , since the publication of these guidelines , a plethora of evidence relating to the beneficial effects of n-3 PUFAs , in areas other than heart disease , has emerged .
Background	The majority of intervention studies , which found associations between various conditions and the intake of fish oils or their derivatives , used n-3 intakes well above the 0.2 g day ( -1 ) recommended by Committee on Medical Aspects of Food Policy ( COMA ) .
Background	Furthermore , in 2004 , the Food Standards Agency changed its advice on oil-rich fish creating a discrepancy between the levels of n-3 PUFA implied by the new advice and the 1994 COMA guideline .
Background	This review will examine published evidence from observational and intervention studies relating to the health effects of n-3 PUFAs , and discuss whether the current UK recommendation for long-chain n-3 PUFA needs to be revisited .

Background	Previous studies have shown that spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) of upper lumbar segments decreases visceromotor responses to mechanical stimuli in a sensitized rat colon and reduces symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome in patients .
Background	SCS applied to the upper cervical spinal dorsal column reduces pain of chronic refractory angina .
Background	Further , chemical stimulation of C1-C2 propriospinal neurons in rats modulates the responses of lumbosacral spinal neurons to colorectal distension .
Method	The present study was designed to compare the effects of upper cervical and lumbar SCS on activity of lumbosacral neurons receiving noxious colorectal input .
Method	Extracellular potentials of L6-S2 spinal neurons were recorded in pentobarbital anesthetized , paralyzed and ventilated male rats .
Method	SCS ( 50 Hz , 0.2 ms ) at low intensity ( 90 % of motor threshold ) was applied to the dorsal column of upper cervical ( C1-C2 ) or upper lumbar ( L2-L3 ) ipsilateral spinal segments .
Method	Colorectal distension ( CRD , 20 mmHg , 40 mmHg , 60 mmHg , 20s ) was produced by air inflation of a latex balloon .
Result	Results showed that SCS applied to L2-L3 and C1-C2 segments significantly reduced the excitatory responses to noxious CRD from 417.6 + / -68.0 to 296.3 + / -53.6 imp ( P < 0.05 , n = 24 ) and from 336.2 + / -64.5 to 225.0 + / -73.3 imp ( P < 0.05 , n = 18 ) , respectively .
Result	Effects of L2-L3 and C1-C2 SCS lasted 10.2 + / -1.9 and 8.0 + / -0.9 min after offset of CRD .
Result	Effects of SCS were observed on spinal neurons with either high or low-threshold excitatory responses to CRD .
Result	However , L2-L3 or C1-C2 SCS did not significantly affect inhibitory neuronal responses to CRD .
Result	C1-C2 SCS-induced effects were abolished by cutting the C7-C8 dorsal column but not by spinal transection at cervicomedullary junction .
Result	These data demonstrated that upper cervical or lumbar SCS modulated responses of lumbosacral spinal neurons to noxious mechanical stimulation of the colon , thereby , proved two loci for a potential therapeutic effect of SCS in patients with irritable bowel

Background	The political circus surrounding Terri Schiavo 's death is unlikely to repeat itself soon in other cases but the underlying event that precipitated the furor is a recurrent clinical problem-the problem of conflict among family members about withdrawing or
Background	The laws of most states purport to solve this problem by automatic appointment of one person among the disputing family members .
Background	However , this forced resolution of the family conflict does not clearly reflect the prior values of the incompetent patient and is likely to intensify rather than ease that conflict , providing no demonstrable benefit to the incompetent patient and complic
Result	This article explores the benefits of a different legal rule that would require family consensus before life-prolonging treatment is withdrawn or withheld for an incompetent patient who has indicated no prior wishes regarding the resolution of family conf

Method	Sixteen patients were treated with a new anterior internal fixation device after thoracolumbar or lumbar decompression , and fusion with bone grafting .
Result	Ten patients had acute burst fractures , four had metastatic tumors , and two had old , healed fractures with deformity .
Result	In the acute fracture group , eight patients had neurologic deficits and seven patients experienced improvement .
Result	Six patients had lesions of the conus medullaris , all of which improved .
Result	The four patients with metastatic tumors underwent surgery for back and leg pain and all gained significant relief .
Result	Two patients had correction of old fracture deformity with satisfactory outcome .
Result	Complications were minimal .
Result	The new anterior stabilization device provided early stability , allowed early patient mobilization , was easy to insert , and has a low profile .
Result	Late collapse , non-union , and kyphotic deformity have not been noted thusfar .

Background	Adrenoleukodystrophy ( ALD ) is an X-linked disorder that involves mainly the nervous system white matter and adrenal cortex .
Background	It is associated with the accumulation of saturated very-long-chain fatty acids ( VLCFAs ) , such as hexacosanoic acid ( C26 :0 ) , that occurs as a result of the impaired capacity to degrade these substances , a reaction that normally takes place in the peroxiso
Background	The VLCFAs originate from the diet and are also synthesized endogenously .
Background	Interest in dietary therapy arose from the observation that the administration of oils containing erucic and oleic acid ( Lorenzo 's oil ) , when combined with restriction of dietary intake of VLCFAs , can normalize plasma VLCFA levels in ALD patients .
Background	Clinical results in patients who are already symptomatic have been disappointing .
Background	However , preliminary data , still in need of confirmation , suggest that dietary therapy begun in asymptomatic patients can reduce the frequency and severity of later neurological disability .

Method	Fifty-five patients with severe pain from spinal instability secondary to metastatic cancer were referred to Hope Hospital , none being judged to be in a terminal condition .
Result	One patient had too extensive disease for surgery so 54 were treated by 55 spinal stabilisations ; 49 obtained complete relief of pain and two had partial relief .
Result	There were three failures .
Result	Twenty-eight of the patients had clinical evidence of spinal cord or cauda equina compression and were decompressed at the time of stabilisation .
Result	Of these , 20 had major recovery of neurological function .
Result	Patients with pre-operative evidence of extradural tumour had ` prophylactic ' decompression at the time of stabilisation ; none of these patients later developed signs of cord or cauda equina compression .
Result	The results suggest that alleviation of pain and restoration of mobility are best achieved by segmental spinal stabilisation ; a few patients require a combined anterior and posterior stabilisation .
Result	Postoperative radiotherapy should be given whenever possible , and the causative tumour should be treated by endocrine or chemotherapy , as indicated .

Background	PDPH are not the privilege of spinal anaesthesia , as they can occur in various circumstances including epidural anesthesia , surgical wound of the dura , spinal tap and/or myclography .
Background	Diagnosis PDPH can be discussed with four etiologies : cortical vein thrombosis , meningitis , intracranial haematomas ( intracerebral , subdural ) or migraine .
Background	PDPH result from the leakage of CSF via the dural hole , responsible of hypotension of CSF in the subarachnoid compartment .
Background	Several etiologies and predisposing factors are discussed .
Background	The incidence of PDPH varies with age , maximum from 15 to 50 years-old , the decreasing to reach a very low incidence over 65 PDPH seems to occur more frequently in women , especially during pregnancy .
Background	The diameter of the spinal needle is the main factor of PDPH .
Background	Using small diameters ( 25 G and less ) allows to reduce the percentage of PDPH , as well as using specially designed needles with a `` pinpoint bevel '' ( Sprîtte , Whitacre ) .
Background	When PDPH occur , no specific treatment is required before the fifth day , as they spontaneously resolve in 80 % of the patients , without any intervention .
Background	After then , epidural blood patch allows 90 % success rate .
Background	Other therapeutic proposals are discussed .
Background	Finally , prevention of PDPH appears to be the keypoint , paying particular attention to the choice of the needle and of the spinal puncture technique .

Background	We have developed a whole cell enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) that detects the melanoma antigens gp100 and S-100 in tumor samples from patients with metastatic melanoma and the antigen CA 125 in tumor samples from patients with ovarian carcinom
Background	The assay is relatively simple to perform and interpret without specialized expertise in pathology .
Background	It is both sensitive and selective and is amenable to being automated .
Result	The results correlate very well with those obtained by flow cytometry and are in good accord with published values obtained by immunohistochemistry .
Result	We believe that this assay should be very helpful for characterizing autologous cell cancer vaccines and may also represent a useful alternative to immunohistochemistry for cancer diagnosis .
Result	It should be adaptable to other types of cancer where tumor antigens have been identified and good antibodies are available .

Background	The aim of this study was to characterize the distribution , timing , and risk factors for psychiatric comorbidity in children with recent onset epilepsy .
Method	Children aged 8 to 18 years with recent onset epilepsy ( < 1 year in duration ) of idiopathic etiology ( n = 53 ) and a healthy comparison group ( n = 50 ) underwent a structured psychiatric diagnostic interview to characterize the spectrum of lifetime-to-date hi
Result	There was no significant difference between the children with recent onset epilepsy and healthy comparison children in sex ( 31 males , 22 females vs 23 males , 27 females ) or mean age 12.7 y [ SD 3.3 ] vs 12.7 y [ SD 3.2 ] ) .
Result	Children with recent onset epilepsy exhibited an elevated rate of lifetime-to-date Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , 4th edition ( DSM-IV ) Axis I disorders compared with the comparison group .
Result	They showed significantly higher rates of depressive disorders ( 22.6 vs. 4 % , p = 0.01 ) , anxiety disorders ( 35.8 vs 22 % , p < 0.05 ) , and attention-deficit-hyperactivity disorder ( 26.4 vs 10 % , p = 0.01 ) with elevated but less prevalent rates of oppositional def
Result	A subset of children with epilepsy ( 45 % ) exhibited DSM-IV Axis I disorders before the first recognized seizure , suggesting the potential influence of antecedent neurobiological factors that remain to be identified .
Result	The increased prevalence of psychiatric comorbidity antedating epilepsy onset may be consistent with the presence of underlying neurobiological influences independent of seizures , epilepsy syndrome , and medication treatment .

Method	Since 1974 , 56 children with a neuropathic bladder were selected for intermittent or indwelling catheterisation .
Background	Indications for catheterisation included incontinence , hydronephrosis , and/or difficulty with bladder expression .
Result	Good results were obtained in 70 % of girls and 50 % of boys .
Result	The catheter was abandoned in 7 children , mainly because of lack of cooperation from the parents .
Result	Deterioration occurred only in those children with both hydronephrosis and vesico-ureteric reflux prior to catheterisation .
Result	Of the latter group of children , 33 % suffered upper tract deterioration , and we now consider vesico-ureteric reflux to be a relative contra-indication to catheterisation , except in those children with severe disabilities and deformities , in whom antireflu
Result	Indwelling penile catheters should not be recommended for boys , but catheterisation via a perineal urethrostomy may prove helpful in those unable either to catheterise themselves intermittently or to wear a penile appliance .

Background	Several medications have recently been introduced for the treatment of depression .
Method	We reviewed the literature to summarize their efficacy in the treatment of depression in adult patients in primary care settings .
Method	We searched the literature published from 1980 to January 1998 using the Cochrane Collaboration Depression Anxiety and Neurosis Group 's specialized registry of 8,451 clinical trials , references from trials and 46 pertinent meta-analyses , and consultation with experts .
Method	We included randomized controlled trials of at least 6 weeks ' duration that measured clinical outcomes and compared one of 32 newer medications with another newer antidepressant , an older antidepressant , a placebo , or a psychosocial intervention for the t
Method	The primary outcome was response rate , defined as the proportion of patients experiencing a 50 % or greater improvement in depressive symptoms .
Result	There were 28 randomized controlled trials involving 5,940 adult primary care patients with major depression , depression requiring treatment , dysthymia , or mixed anxiety depression .
Method	Newer agents , including selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors , serotonin norepinephrine inhibitors , reversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase , and dopamine antagonists , were usually compared with tricyclic agents .
Result	Average response rates were 63 % for newer agents , 35 % for placebo , and 60 % for tricyclic agents .
Result	Response rates were similar in the different types of depress
Result	Dropout rates as a result of adverse effects were 8 % with newer agents and 13 % with tricyclic agents ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	In primary care settings , newer antidepressants are more effective than placebo and have similar efficacy compared with tricyclic agents in the acute treatment of depression .
Result	Dropout rates as a result of adverse effects are lower with newer compared with tricyclic agents .
Result	Future studies should compare the effectiveness of different therapies among primary care patients with less severe depression and greater medical and psychiatric comorbidity .

Background	The in vivo pharmacokinetic interaction between two selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRI ) ( fluvoxamine , fluoxetine ) and tricyclic antidepressants ( TCAs ) ( amitriptyline , clomipramine ) or neuroleptics ( haloperidol , cyamemazine , levomepromazine , pro
Method	They were phenotyped twice with dextromethorphan and mephenytoin : first in steady state conditions while under treatment with TCAs or neuroleptics ; and also 10 days after an associated treatment with fluvoxamine ( 150 mg day ( -1 ) ) or fluoxetine ( 20 mg day ( -
Result	A clear and statistically significant increase in the mean urinary metabolic ratio ( MR ) of dextromethorphan/dextrorphan and in the mean mephenytoin S/R ratio ( S/R ) was seen with the fluvoxamine and fluoxetine treatment .
Result	The mean MR increased from 0.13 to 0.27 ( P < 0.01 ) with fluoxetine and from 0.34 to 0.84 with fluvoxamine ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	The ( dextromethorphan ) ` extensive metabolizer ' phenotype switched to the ` poor metabolizer ' phenotype in six patients by the 10-day fluoxetine treatment , and in two patients by the fluvoxamine treatment .
Result	The mean S/R increased from 0.24 to 0.34 ( P < 0.05 ) with fluoxetine , and from 0.33 to 0.58 ( P < 0.002 ) with fluvoxamine .
Result	These results are in agreement with the observed modification of TCA plasma levels after the SSRI association .
Result	During fluvoxamine treatment , amitriptyline and clomipramine plasma levels ( P < 0.06 both ) tendentially increased , and those of demethylclomiprarnine decreased ( P < 0.06 ) .
Result	Fluoxetine addition lead to a significant increase ( P < 0.02 ) of the desmethylclomipramine plasma levels .
Result	Fluvoxamine induced a moderate augmentation of the plasma levels of haloperidol and its reduced metabolite and no change in the plasma levels of cyamemazine and levomepromazine .
Result	But patients treated with neuroleptics are to few to draw any firm conclusion .
Result	This study suggests , that fluoxetine and fluvoxamine differ in their interaction with the metabolism of some other basic psychotropic drugs , by a mechanism which implies CYP2D6 and CYPmeph and possibly other isoformes of cytochrome P-450 .
Result	Moreover , the interactions produced varied with the TCA prescribed .

Background	To determine the effect of a laxative alone and in combination with tegaserod in alleviating pain and improving stool frequency in adolescents with constipation predominant irritable bowel syndrome .
Method	Forty-eight postpubertal adolescents of both sexes with constipation predominant irritable bowel syndrome , as defined by Rome II criteria , were randomly allocated to Group A ( n = 27 ) for treatment with a laxative ( polyethylene glycol 3350 oral solution ) o
Method	Symptoms of abdominal pain ( scale 0-10 ) and frequency of bowel movements were recorded daily in the pre-treatment phase and the post-treatment phase after a 7-day ` washout ' period .
Method	Patients served as their own controls .
Result	Treatment with the laxative alone ( Group A ) resulted in significant increase in frequency of bowel movements ( P < 0.05 ) , but not significant improvement in pain ( P > 0.05 ) .
Result	Treatment with the combination of the laxative and tegaserod ( Group B ) led to significant increase in the frequency of bowel movements and also significant reduction in pain ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	The laxative alone improved stooling but not pain in adolescents with constipation predominant irritable bowel syndrome .
Result	Addition of tegaserod resulted in alleviation of pain as well .

Background	The National Heart , Lung , and Blood Institute assembled an ad hoc working group to evaluate opportunities for new major clinical trials in the field of hypertension .
Background	The mandate of this working group was to consider the possible designs of major randomized clinical trials focused on clinical outcomes that might merit significant investment by the National Institutes of Health .
Background	The group concluded that the ideal pragmatic clinical trial would have a factorial design and include a population at elevated risk of cardiovascular disease events .
Background	Subjects would be randomized to a target of systolic blood pressure < 130 versus 130 to 150 mm Hg for adequate separation of means .
Background	Initial treatment with thiazide diuretic would be followed by randomization to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker , beta-blocker , calcium channel blocker , or aldosterone antagonist .
Background	A third drug could be added according to a protocol .
Background	DNA , proteins , and metabolites would be collected in a sample adequate to assess differential impact of treatment on outcome as a function of genotype , proteomic , and metabolomic expression .
Background	Subclinical markers and images would also be measured in a sample of patients to develop evidence of ability to predict ultimate effect on clinical outcomes .
Background	This ideal trial would take place within a network , funded for at least a decade , aimed at connecting primary care providers with hypertension specialists .
Background	Within the network , substudies or independent studies would be coordinated to develop a continuously improving base of knowledge about the effective delivery of hypertension care .

Method	We performed 15 dynamic gadolinium-DTPA ( Gd-DTPA ) - enhanced MRI studies in 8 patients with relapsing and remitting multiple sclerosis ; 7 were follow-up studies .
Method	We measured the time course of enhancement in 102 enhancing lesions for up to 384 minutes , with rest breaks .
Result	Immediate postcontrast MRIs demonstrated many different patterns of enhancement .
Result	We observed both uniformly enhancing and ring enhancing lesions .
Result	The enhancing regions were often less extensive than the corresponding high signal on T2-weighted images .
Result	Three lesions were seen with Gd-DTPA but not on unenhanced scans ; 1 was seen on unenhanced scans 10 days later , suggesting that blood-brain barrier disturbance may precede other MRI signs of MS lesions .
Result	Three months later , some high-signal areas on T2-weighted scans had decreased in size to resemble the areas previously outlined by Gd-DTPA .
Result	This technique provides useful information about the pathogenesis and behavior of MS lesions .

Background	Low back pain ( LBP ) is a widespread health problem and a major contributor to increasing health costs and lost work days .
Background	Different pathologies cause LBP and one of these is lumbar degenerative spondylolisthesis ( SPL ) .
Background	There are no generally accepted and standardized methods for assessing the outcome of patients treated for degenerative lumbar SPL .
Method	This study aims to assess quality of life after surgery for lumbar degenerative SPL through the adoption of outcome measures .
Method	We studied 76 patients treated , for degenerative lumbar SPL , with spinal stabilization , decompression and bilateral dorsolateral fusion , followed up for at least two years .
Method	We used the Roland-Morris ( RM ) scale and the Oswestry Disability Index ( ODI ) to assess the quality of life of the patients before surgery and at follow up .
Method	Each patient was pre-operatively studied through standard and dynamic x-rays , CT scan and MRI of lumbar column .
Method	Relationships between clinical , radiological and disability scores , grouped by categories , were tested .
Method	The sample comprised 25 males and 51 females .
Method	Mean age was 59.6 years ( SD 12.2 ) .
Result	The mean duration of symptoms ( from clinical onset to surgery ) was 23.42 months ( median 13 , range 4-100 months ) .
Result	In about half of the cases , duration of symptoms before surgery was > 12 months .
Result	At follow up , the fusion rate was 85.5 % , and the ODI score was significantly reduced : an improvement of < 20 points in 35.7 % of patients , and of > 20 points in 55.7 % .
Result	On the RM scale , 59.4 % of patients had a reduction > 5 points , 13.1 % a reduction of 2-4 points , and 27.5 % an unchanged or worse score .
Result	There was no significant reduction in RM scale and ODI scores in patients with fusion versus pseudoarthrosis .
Result	Instrumental pedicle screw fixation and arthorodesis seem to be very effective in improving quality of life , as shown by the reduced disability scores at follow up .

Background	Hormone replacement therapy ( HRT ) in post-menopausal or ovariectomized women reduces mortality due to cardiovascular diseases , lowers morbidity due to osteoporosis and improves vasovagal symptoms .
Background	Long-term therapy , however , increase the risk of side-effects .
Background	HRT may decrease mammographic sensitivity , markedly increasing glandular density .
Background	Enlargement of pre-existing cysts and fibroadenomas has also been reported after HRT .
Background	The correlation between HRT and breast cancer is highly controversial .
Method	We examined 650 women : 550 of them ( 84.6 % ) received HRT ( 157 estrogens and 393 estrogens-progestins ) and 100 ( 15.4 % ) refused treatment and were thus considered as a control group .
Method	All patients underwent mammography and DEXA before HRT and , during treatment , were followed-up yearly with mammography , often combined with US , and DEXA .
Method	Fisher 's test was used for data analysis ( confidence interval 95 % ) .
Result	The statistical analysis showed a significant difference between the HRT group and the control group only for the lumbar spine .
Result	II ) were shown in 150 of 550 HRT patients .
Result	Increased breast density was the most frequent finding .
Result	Benign lesions arising de novo or increasing in size and/or number were observed in 41 of 150 patients ( 27.3 % ) in the HRT group , where 3 breast carcinomas were detected , versus 1 breast cancer only in the control group .
Result	HRT had a marked positive effect on bone mineral content ( BMC ) at 2 years ' follow-up , but it remains debated if it reduces breast cancer risk .
Result	In conclusion , our results indicate that a yearly mammography is mandatory in long-term HRT subjects and US may be also needed in particularly dense breasts .

Background	A low peak oxygen uptake ( pVO ( 2 ) ) and steep VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope are independently associated with a worse prognosis in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) .
Background	We wished to confirm whether combining these variables as a ratio would lead to a more accurate predictor of prognosis than using either alone .
Method	388 CHF patients completed a treadmill-based cardiopulmonary exercise test ( CPET ) to volitional exhaustion using a modified Bruce protocol .
Result	212 CHF patients completed the CPET with a peak RER > or = 1.0 .
Result	Of these , 48 patients died and one was transplanted during follow-up .
Result	In surviving patients , the median follow-up period was 42 months ( IQR 34-49 months ) .
Result	The ratio VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope/pVO ( 2 ) was calculated for each individual and its ability to predict outcome compared with other variables .
Result	The Cox multivariable survival analysis showed that pVO ( 2 ) was the strongest independent predictor of mortality in CHF patients .
Result	Our study shows that the composite variable VE/VCO ( 2 ) slope/pVO ( 2 ) is a less effective prognosticator than pVO ( 2 ) alone in patients with CHF .

Background	Laparoscopic colon resection of the endoscopically unresectable polyp has been considered an ideal case for the surgeon with moderate laparoscopic colectomy experience because tissues are not inflamed and the lymphadenectomy may not need to be as extensiv
Method	To assess the appropriateness of this approach , we evaluated the incidence of invasive cancer in a series of laparoscopic colon resections for polyps .
Method	A retrospective review was performed of 55 consecutive patients undergoing laparoscopic colon resection for endoscopically unresectable polyps during a 35-month period .
Method	Colonoscopy data , polyp characteristics , and final colon pathology were reviewed .
Result	On final pathologic examination , 18.2 percent of patients had invasive adenocarcinoma .
Result	Patient age , gender , indication for colonoscopy , polyp size , polyp location , polyp characteristics , and colonoscopic biopsy pathology were not predictive of adenocarcinoma on final pathology .
Result	A significant number of endoscopically unresectable polyps harbor adenocarcinoma , thereby requiring a formal lymphadenectomy at resection .
Result	Caution should be exercised when considering the laparoscopic resection of an endoscopically unresectable polyp as a `` learning '' case .

Result	We have demonstrated that certain morphological and biochemical changes occur in chronic fatigue syndrome ( CFS ) and in rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) .
Result	These changes in RA can be explained by the well-established inappropriate increase in free radical generation .
Result	The similar changes in CFS suggest a similar explanation and a possible role for free radicals in the aetiology of this condition .

Background	Neuropathic pain may be defined as pain related to abnormal somatosensory processing in either the peripheral or central nervous system .
Background	This pathophysiologic label is typically applied when the painful symptom is associated with an overt injury to neural structures , is part of a recognized syndrome , or has a dysesthetic quality ( usually burning , shooting , or electrical ) .
Background	Most neural injury does not lead to clinically important neuropathic pain , but sometimes even a small degree of tissue injury can precipitate severe pain .
Background	In the cancer population , neuropathic pain is often related to compression , direct neoplastic invasion of the peripheral nerves or spinal cord , or to a neuropathy caused by chemotherapy .
Background	To manage neuropathic pain in this population , nonopioid adjuvant drugs that are neuroactive or neuromodulatory are often needed to complement opioid therapy .
Background	The primary adjuvant analgesics are anticonvulsant and antidepressant medications , but a wide variety of other drugs are also used .
Background	To optimize analgesic therapy in patients with neuropathic pain , both opioid and adjuvant analgesics must be used effectively .

Background	The relief of intractable pain after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is very difficult to obtain , even with dorsal root entry zone lesioning , spinal cord stimulation , and thalamic stimulation .
Method	Using bilateral motor cortex stimulation ( MCS ) the authors successfully treated a woman who experienced deafferentation pain 4 years after sustaining an SCI .
Result	To the authors ' knowledge , this is the first report of bilateral MCS for pain relief after SCI .
Result	The success they achieved using this method indicates that MCS could be a new treatment option for deafferentation pain following SCI .

Background	Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is the most common cause of death and disability in young adults living in industrialised countries .
Background	Over the last few years , there has been an increasing awareness that hypopituitarism can complicate TBI in a significant proportion of survivors : at least 25 % of TBI survivors develop one or more pituitary hormone deficiencies .
Background	This remarkably high frequency has changed the traditional concept that hypopituitarism was a rare complication of TBI and suggests that most cases of posttraumatic hypopituitarism remain undiagnosed and untreated in clinical practice .
Background	It is therefore reasonable to infer that posttraumatic hypopituitarism may make an important contribution to the high rates of physical and neuropsychiatric morbidity in patients with head injury .
Result	There is clearly a need for identification as well as appropriate and timely management of hormone deficiencies in TBI patients to reduce morbidity , aid recovery and rehabilitation and avoid the long-term complications of pituitary failure .

Background	Pharmacogenetics is the science of the influence of heredity on pharmacological response .
Background	The cost of severe adverse drug reactions in individuals has been estimated in the US alone to be in excess of US$ 4 billion .
Background	It has been argued that in a significant proportion of cases , the efficacy and toxicity profiles of drug therapy would be substantially improved in individuals if characteristics due to genetic variation were taken into account .
Background	Methods are now available , which make screening for susceptibility feasible .
Result	There are several therapeutic areas in which screening may give rise to significant improvements in outcome with cost-benefits to both the individual and the community .
Result	However , there is currently a lack of data on which cost-benefit analysis can be based .
Result	The challenge is to provide this information for new drugs , and for drugs with established therapeutic roles .

Background	To examine the association of intrapartum fever with infant morbidity and early neonatal ( 0-6 days ) and infant ( 0-364 days ) death .
Method	We carried out a retrospective cohort analysis among singleton live births in the United States for the period 1995-1997 using the National Center for Health Statistics linked birth-infant death cohort data .
Result	Among the 11,246,042 singleton live births during the study period , intrapartum fever ( at least 38C ) was recorded in 1.6 % .
Result	Intrapartum fever was associated with early neonatal ( adjusted odds ratio [ OR ] , 95 % confidence interval [ CI ] for preterm and term infants respectively : 1.32 ; 1.11 , 1.56 and 1.67 ; 1.14 , 2.46 ) and infant ( OR , 95 % CI for preterm and term , respectively : 1.31 ;
Result	Among preterm infants of parous mothers , intrapartum fever was associated with early neonatal ( OR 1.29 , 95 % CI 1.01 , 1.64 ) death .
Result	In the combined analyses ( infants of nulliparous and parous mothers ) , intrapartum fever was a strong predictor of infection-related death .
Result	These associations were stronger among term ( OR 3.16 , 95 % CI 1.56 , 6.40 for early neonatal ; OR 1.75 , 95 % CI 1.20 , 2.57 for infant death ) than preterm infants ( OR 1.52 , 95 % CI 1.15 , 2.00 for early neonatal ; OR 1.29 , 95 % CI 1.05 , 1.57 for infant death ) .
Result	Intrapartum fever was also a risk factor for meconium aspiration syndrome , hyaline membrane disease , neonatal seizures , and assisted ventilation .
Result	Intrapartum fever is an important predictor of neonatal morbidity and infection-related mortality .

Background	Interorganizational health care delivery networks have potential for sustaining health services delivery in rural areas faced with economic and demographic challenges .
Method	Four Nebraska rural health care delivery networks ( Albion-Ord , Blue River Valley , Rural Partners , Inc. , and Western Nebraska ) were compared to an interorganizational model based on theories of interorganizational relations , exchange , population ecology , a
Method	It assumes that outcomes , including effectiveness , are influenced by external and internal factors that are operationalized through external control , technology , structure , and operational process variables .
Method	Data were collected by a non-random , two-level cluster mail survey of network members ( 45/59 = 76.3 % response rate ) .
Result	All networks received technical assistance from the Nebraska Office of Rural Health .
Result	Networks have formal organization , strategic plans , and official coordinators .
Result	Hospital administrators hold most leadership positions ; few doctors or citizens are involved .
Result	Correlation and multiple regression analysis show partial fit between the research model and study networks .
Result	Effectiveness , measure by the gap between best possible and actual practice , increased with network connectivity ( r = .36 , p < .05 ) , group methods of administrative decision-making ( r = .52 , p < .001 ) and sequential pattern of service delivery ( r = .39 , p <
Result	Greater dependence on vertical funding corresponds to greater external control ( r = .43 , p < .01 ) .
Result	The prediction that , as scope narrows , task intensity ( r = .56 , p < .001 ) , duration ( r = .41 , p < .01 ) , and task volume ( r = .50 , p < .01 ) increase is upheld .
Result	Centrality and network size decrease together ( r = .43 , p < .01 ) where there is little reliance on vertical sources of funds ( r = .36 , p < .05 ) .
Result	The integrated interorganizational model demonstrates some efficacy for testing potential effectiveness of networks .

Background	We surveyed cancer physicians to understand how patients ' age and comorbidity influence adjuvant chemotherapy recommendations and whether physician or practice characteristics also affect these recommendations .
Method	National survey of surgeons and medical oncologists caring for patients with colorectal cancer regarding whether they would recommend adjuvant chemotherapy for hypothetical patients with stage III colon cancer who varied by age ( 55 v 80 years ) and comorbi
Method	Repeated measures logistic regression was used to assess the influence of patient , physician , and practice characteristics on chemotherapy recommendations .
Result	Of 1,096 physicians , nearly all recommended chemotherapy for patients who were 55 years old with no comorbidity ( 99.0 % ) , 55-years old with moderate CHF ( 88.6 % ) , or 80 years old with no comorbidity ( 92.6 % ) ; many fewer recommended chemotherapy for 55-year-o
Result	Younger physicians ( P < .001 ) were more likely than others to recommend adjuvant chemotherapy overall , although physician factors explained little of the variability in recommendations .
Result	Physicians agree with guidelines recommending adjuvant chemotherapy for young , healthy patients with stage III colon cancer but differ widely on recommendations for patients who are older and sicker .
Result	Few physician or practice characteristics were associated with recommendations .
Result	For older and sicker patients , the individual physicians seen may have a substantial impact on the likelihood of receiving chemotherapy .
Result	Understanding better the sources of variation not explained by patients ' clinical characteristics may allow improved tailoring of therapy to patients most likely to benefit .

Background	Efficiency and safety of amantadine sulfate ( AMS ) infusions were investigated in late stage complications of Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) .
Method	In an open-label study , 21 PD patients suffering from motor fluctuations and/or dyskinesias were administered AMS infusions ( PK-Merz , 400 mg per day ) during seven days .
Method	Oral AMS treatment followed .
Result	Significant improvement of UPDRS motor scores was observed between day 0 and day 7 , remaining improved until day 21 .
Result	Based on patients ' diary notes , both severity and occurrence of hypokinetic `` off '' state significantly decreased ( from 6.6 to 3.1 hours , p < 0.001 , average `` off '' time per day ) as well as dopaminergic-induced dyskinesias ( from 2.5 to
Result	AMS infusions followed by oral administration appeared as a safe method for improvement of both motor fluctuations and dyskinesias in advanced PD .
Result	In advantage to simple oral therapy , AMS infusions allowed fast introduction of a profound and durable treatment effect .

Background	Nociceptive pain alerts the body to potential or actual tissue damage .
Background	By contrast , neuropathic pain , which results from injury or damage to the nervous system , persists long after all signs of the original injury have disappeared .
Background	This type of maladaptive pain presents a significant clinical problem , as it responds poorly or unpredictably to classical analgesics .
Background	There is also no single , uniformly well-tolerated drug that is reliably helpful .
Background	Current understanding of the etiology of neuropathic pain reveals seven potential targets for therapeutic intervention .
Background	These are : 1 ) ectopic activity in damaged peripheral nerves ; 2 ) increased excitability in spinal dorsal horn neurons ; 3 ) restoration or augmentation of GABAergic inhibition in the dorsal horn ; 4 ) supraspinal and affective mechanisms ; 5 ) alterations in the
Background	Current therapeutic approaches , using drugs such as gabapentin , anticonvulsants , ketamine or methadone , and potential new approaches are discussed in the context of these seven drug targets .

Method	A case report of ureteral injury as a complication incurred during a laparoscopy-assisted lumbar fusion .
Method	To alert orthopedic surgeons to this injury , which may occur during such surgery .
Background	Laparoscopy-assisted lumbar fusion is a minimally invasive surgical technique to accomplish lumbar fusion with excellent patient satisfaction , reduced hospital stay , and decreased rehabilitative time .
Method	A case report is presented detailing ureteral injury as a complication of laparoscopy-assisted lumbar fusion and the subsequent treatment of the injury .
Result	Laparoscopy-assisted lumbar fusion is a new , less invasive technique with excellent patient satisfaction ; however , ureteral injury may occur , and the surgeon should keep this in mind if a postoperative fluid collection occurs in the pelvis .

Background	Huntington 's disease ( HD ) is characterized by the presence of hyperkinesias , but bradykinesia is also present in most patients .
Method	We studied the motor performance of 18 patients with genetically proven HD ( age , 38.5 + / - 10 y ; clinical stage , 1.7 + / - 1.7 ; ( CAG ) triplet length , 49.2 + / - 6.8 triplets ; all but three patients were free from neuroleptics ) and compared with a control group
Method	Motor study included the four timed tests commonly used for PD : Pronation-supination ( PS ) , finger dexterity ( FD ) , movement between two points ( MTP ) and walking test ( WT ) .
Method	Tests were done at 9 AM .
Method	The PD group was studied in `` off '' condition , with no medication given for 12 hours .
Result	The HD group was slower than the controls on all tasks ( all tests significant , p < 0.01 , Mann-Whitney U test ) and even slower than PD group ( for FD , p < 0.05 ) .
Result	A significant correlation was found between each test and clinical stage ( for PS , r = 0.84 ; for FD , r = 0.75 ; for MTP , r = 087 , and for WT , r = 0.77 , Pearson ) .
Result	Severe bradykinesia was present in HD , and motor impairment is related to clinical stage .

Background	Is sense-antisense ( SA ) pairing of transcripts a common mode of gene regulation in the human genome ?
Background	Although > 20 % of human genes might form SA pairs , the extent to which they are involved in antisense regulation is unknown .
Background	Simultaneous expression of paired sense and antisense genes is an essential step and an important indicator of antisense regulation .
Result	In this article , we demonstrate that human SA pairs tend to be co-expressed and/or inversely expressed more frequently than expected by chance .
Result	Moreover , co-expressed and inversely expressed SA pairs exhibit a striking pattern of evolutionary conservation .
Result	These findings suggest that antisense regulation is a common and important mechanism of gene regulation in the human genome .

Method	The effects of single oral administrations of tricyclic antidepressants ( imipramine and desipramine ) , an atypical antidepressant ( nomifensine ) , known anorexic agents , haloperidol , and diazepam on food intake were compared in Sprague-Dawley rats over a 4-d
Result	The tricyclic antidepressants produced decreases in food intake during the total 4-day test period following their administration .
Result	In contrast , the anorexic agents ( d-amphetamine , cocaine , mazindol , fenfluramine and quipazine ) , and nomifensine , and haloperidol produced decreases in food intake only on their administration .
Result	Diazepam produced an increase in food intake only on the day of its decrease food intake , this model appears to show some specificity for tricyclic antidepressants .

Background	Language barriers have been shown to negatively impact health care for immigrants .
Background	We evaluated the association between language use and the diagnosis of hypertension among elderly Mexican Americans .
Method	We studied subjects from the Hispanic Established Populations for Epidemiologic Studies of the Elderly , a cohort of 3050 Mexican American subjects age > or = 65 .
Method	Measures of language included Spanish and/or English language read/spoken , language used in social situations , and language of mass media use .
Method	Undiagnosed hypertension on physical exam was defined as systolic blood pressure > or = 140 mm Hg and/or diastolic blood pressure > or = 90 mm Hg in persons who did not report previous hypertension diagnosis or were not current users of anti-hypertensive medications .
Result	The age - and sex-adjusted prevalence of diagnosed hypertension and undiagnosed hypertension were 50.5 % and 19.3 % , respectively .
Result	Among 1347 older adults without previous diagnosis of hypertension that were included in the primary analysis , the mean age was 72 years and 43 % were immigrants .
Result	After adjusting for age , gender , and education , Spanish use more often than English use in mass media was significantly associated with undiagnosed hypertension ( adjusted OR 2.2 [ 1.3-3 .6 ] ) .
Result	Other measures of acculturation were not independently associated with undiagnosed hypertension .
Result	In analyses restricted to persons with hypertension , similar language factors distinguished those who had been diagnosed from those whose hypertension was undiagnosed .
Result	Mexican American elders who reported using Spanish more often than English use in mass media were more likely to have undiagnosed hypertension compared to those using English language in mass media .
Result	Further studies are needed to elucidate the role of mass media language in hypertension awareness and management among Hispanic elders .

Background	To present a chiropractic treatment plan for a patient with lumbar disc herniation including radicular symptoms below the knee .
Method	A 38-year-old male experienced lumbar disc herniation with radicular symptoms to the lower extremities , below the knee .
Method	Etiology of this episode included a traumatic injury which was complicated by chronic degenerative joint and disc changes .
Method	The treatment regime included chiropractic spinal manipulation , modalities and exercise rehabilitation .
Method	Specific rehabilitation exercises were used during various stages of healing in an attempt to stabilize a potential surgical case .
Background	Goals of care were to alleviate pain , increase function , and decrease peripheralization related to disc herniation in this case .
Result	The patient reached a level of functional biomechanical stability over 15 weeks .
Result	This case demonstrates that with proper management , rehabilitation of a patient with disc herniation can be reached in a short duration of time .

Background	The objective was to investigate the effectiveness of cannabis-based medicines for treatment of chronic pain associated with brachial plexus root avulsion .
Background	This condition is an excellent human model of central neuropathic pain as it represents an unusually homogenous group in terms of anatomical location of injury , pain descriptions and patient demographics .
Method	Forty-eight patients with at least one avulsed root and baseline pain score of four or more on an 11-point ordinate scale participated in a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled , three period crossover study .
Method	All patients had intractable symptoms regardless of current analgesic therapy .
Method	Patients entered a baseline period of 2 weeks , followed by three , 2-week treatment periods during each of which they received one of three oromucosal spray preparations .
Method	These were placebo and two whole plant extracts of Cannabis sativa L. GW-1000-02 ( Sativex ) , containing Delta ( 9 ) tetrahydrocannabinol ( THC ) cannabidiol ( CBD ) in an approximate 11 ratio and GW-2000-02 , containing primarily THC .
Result	The primary outcome measure was the mean pain severity score during the last 7 days of treatment .
Result	Secondary outcome measures included pain related quality of life assessments .
Result	The primary outcome measure failed to fall by the two points defined in our hypothesis .
Result	However , both this measure and measures of sleep showed statistically significant improvements .
Result	The study medications were generally well tolerated with the majority of adverse events , including intoxication type reactions , being mild to moderate in severity and resolving spontaneously .
Result	Studies of longer duration in neuropathic pain are required to confirm a clinically relevant , improvement in the treatment of this condition .

Background	A patient with a whiplash injury suffering from prolonged symptoms , including pain and weakness of the right upper extremity and the symptoms of Barré-Liéou syndrome , was diagnosed and treated with the Bi-Digital O-Ring Test as a supplement to standard
Result	Radiological findings showed spondylotic canal stenosis with osteophytes and disc protrusions .
Result	The Bi-Digital O-Ring Test indicated a strong abnormal response around the right side of his neck and right shoulder , including the area of the vertebral artery and at acupuncture point GB 21 , where positive resonant responses to Cytomegalovirus and Strep
Result	Antibiotic and anti-viral agents , as well as Ku-Oketsu-Zai , a type of Oriental herbal medicine for overcoming blood stagnation or stasis , were administered according to the drug compatibility test using the Bi-Digital O-ring Test and the following clinica
Result	Infection at the site of the vertebral artery and the peri-arterial sympathetic nerve plexus was considered as a cause of the prolongation of the symptoms including Barré-Liéou syndrome , in this case .
Result	In addition we especially noted , in this clinical case , that the patient 's impaired grasping force dramatically improved from 8 kg to 52 kg in a very short periods of time when the patient held suitable medicine selected with the Bi-Digital O-Ring Test dr
Result	We assume that the drug action was transferred electromagnetically , by which the pathological electromagnetic oscillations caused by trauma and following infections were scavenged .
Result	This effect might lead to an improvement in the coordination of the neuromuscular system .

Background	This study was done to evaluate the effect of spinal cord stimulation ( SCS ) on critical limb ischemia and to report technical problems and complications .
Method	One hundred and twenty patients with critical limb ischemia were eligible for randomization between medical treatment and medical treatment plus SCS .
Method	Sixty received a spinal cord stimulator ( Itrel II ; Medtronic , Minneapolis , Minn. , USA ) .
Method	Primary outcome measures were limb salvage and pain relief .
Result	The mean pain reduction in both treatment groups was 50 % ( from 5 to 2.5 on the visual analog scale ) .
Result	The 2-year limb survival was 52 % ( SCS ) versus 46 % ( standard treatment ; p = 0.47 ) .
Result	The number of patients undergoing major amputations in the SCS group with intermediate TcpO2 values was half of that in the standard group ( 14 vs. 28 ; 24 vs. 48 % ; p = 0.17 ) .
Result	Implantation was successful in 51 patients .
Result	Technical problems such as loss of stimulation due to lead displacement occurred in 13 patients ( 22 % ) , local infection at the site of implantation occurred in 3 patients ( 5 % ) , resulting in a total complication rate of 27 % .
Result	Premature depletion of the battery occurred within 2 years in 3 patients ( 5 % ) .
Result	There were no lead fractures , epidural infections , hematoma or cerebrospinal fluid leakage .
Result	Training of physicians and better reliability of the hardware should reduce the frequency of technical problems .
Result	Lead displacement remains the major technical problem .
Result	The search for prognostic factors of limb salvage is important .
Result	One microcirculatory measurement ( TcpO2 ) seems to have a prognostic value , which remains to be described more precisely .

Background	Chemosensitivity test has its role in cancer therapy .
Background	Using an accurate , efficient , and simple way to choose the proper chemosensitive drugs in our clinical study will help advance our work .
Background	The MTT assay is a rapid , precise , and new method to perform drug sensitivity assay .
Method	We used an ovarian cancer cell line ( OC-3L-VGH ) to compare the accuracy of the MTT and the [ 3H ] - TdR incorporation assay in measuring chemosensitivity of 7 anticancer drugs .
Result	Good correlation was observed between the MTT and the [ 3H ] - TdR assay for drug sensitivity testing ( r = 0.893 , P less than 0.001 ) .
Result	Based on this study we found it may be preferable to use the MTT assay for chemosensitivity screening .

Background	Antenatal depression is a significant risk factor for postpartum depression , with a 10 % -12 % prevalence in all pregnancies .
Background	Rates of depression are higher for pregnant women with chronic stressors , financial and housing problems , and inadequate social support .
Background	Despite the prevalence and associated family and infant morbidity , there are no controlled clinical treatment trials regarding this topic , to the authors ' knowledge .
Background	APA has identified treatment of depression during pregnancy as a priority for clinical guidelines .
Method	A 16-week bilingual controlled clinical trial compared a group receiving interpersonal psychotherapy for antepartum depression to a parenting education control program .
Method	Fifty outpatient antepartum women who met DSM-IV criteria for major depressive disorder were randomly assigned to interpersonal psychotherapy or a didactic parenting education program .
Method	Thirty-eight women remained in the study and were included in the data analysis .
Method	Depressed mood was measured with the Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale , the Beck Depression Inventory , and the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale .
Method	The Clinical Global Impression ( CGI ) and the Hamilton depression scale measured recovery .
Result	The interpersonal psychotherapy treatment group showed significant improvement compared to the parenting education control program on all three measures of mood at termination .
Result	Recovery criteria were met in 60 % of the women treated with interpersonal psychotherapy , according to a CGI score of < or = 2 .
Result	In addition , there was a significant correlation between maternal mood and mother-infant interaction .
Result	Interpersonal psychotherapy is an effective method of antidepressant treatment during pregnancy and should be a first-line treatment in the hierarchy of treatment for antepartum depression .

Method	The aim of this study was to assess the effectiveness and safety of percutaneous vertebroplasty , a new technique for the treatment of vertebral pain deriving from fracture or gross osteolytic lesion due to multiple myeloma spinal involvement .
Background	Spinal osteolytic lesions are frequently associated with hematologic malignancies due to primary localization of disease ( multiple myeloma and rarely lymphoma ) or secondary effect of intensive corticosteroid therapy .
Method	We treated 64 patients ( 34 males , 30 females ; mean age 71.4 + / -9.6 y ) with pain refractory to conventional medical therapy ( analgesics , bed-rest , bracing with orthopedic devices for more than 3 wk ) localized in spine , in the absence of neurologic signs .
Result	This treatment generated swift pain relief associated with an evident augmentation in vertebral resistance .
Result	Average preprocedural pain level for all patients was reported to be 8.04 + / -1.4 whereas average pain level at 1 and 6 months follow-up period was 1.82 + / -1.84 and 1.92 + / -1.68 , respectively .
Result	Although preprocedure and postprocedure demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in numeric pain scores ( P < 0.01 ) , the pain level at 1 and 6 months was not considered statistically significant .
Result	No procedure-related complications were observed in either leakages of polymethylmethacrylate in the epidural or foraminal area or in complications of pulmonary embolism for venous plexus involvement .
Result	Vertebroplasty is widely considered as an alternative , effective , simple , and safe technique in the treatment of neoplastic vertebral localizations consequent to hematologic malignancies .
Result	The same injection of polymethylmethacrylate can be executed before radiation therapy treatment , synergizing its delayed analgesic action to pain , after failure or in the case of local recurrences .

Background	Anxiety disorders are common in general practice and are associated with several problems regarding recognition and management .
Method	To systematically evaluate the effectiveness of interventions aimed at improving recognition , diagnosis , and management of patients with anxiety disorders .
Method	DESIGN OF STUDY : Systematic review .
Method	MEDLINE , EMBASE , PsychINFO , and the Cochrane Clinical Trials ' Register were searched up until 2003 .
Method	Randomised controlled trials , controlled before/after trials , and interrupted time series for professional , organisational , financial , and regulatory interventions were eligible .
Method	Primary effect measures consisted of anxiety outcomes , diagnosis , prescription , and referral .
Method	Two reviewers independently made eligibility judgments eight out of 563 articles were found to be eligible .
Method	Two reviewers participated independently in the quality assessment and data extraction process using a standardised form based on the Effective Practice and Organisation of Care checklist .
Method	Relative risks or standardised mean differences were calculated when possible .
Method	Four professional interventions and three organisational interventions were examined .
Result	In general , the professional interventions seemed to increase recognition , referral , and prescription as well as improving anxiety outcomes .
Result	Two out of three organisational interventions showed a positive effect on anxiety outcomes .
Result	The one study that took prescription into account showed no effect .
Result	The quality of care for patients with anxiety can be improved .
Result	A combination of professional and organisational interventions in which an external expert is introduced seems to be most promising .
Result	Additional research is nevertheless necessary to determine the exact effects of such interventions using patient effect measures , economic evaluations , and feasibility studies .

Background	Persistence of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) is associated with an increased risk of developing cervical SIL and cancer in young women .
Background	Because this association in older , postmenopausal age women has received little attention , we evaluated persistence of HPV among women in this age group .
Method	Women ( n = 105 ) ages 45-64 were examined annually for 7 years to evaluate HPV in cervical cytologic specimens .
Method	PCR , dot blot hybridization and DNA sequencing were used to detect HPV types .
Result	The cumulative prevalence of HPV was 34 % , and 24 % had HPV high-risk oncogenic types which are associated with genital cancers .
Result	The most common oncogenic types were HPV-16 ( 72 % ) and HPV-31 ( 16 % ) .
Result	The persistence rate of HPV infection was 16 % .
Result	No specific risk factors were associated with repeat viral positivity .
Result	Postmenopausal women are infected with persistent oncogenic HPV at a substantial rate , supporting the need for continued screening in postmenopausal women to detect preneoplastic genital lesions .

Background	Around two-thirds of people with incurable diseases in economically developed countries wish to die at home , but less than one-third succeed in doing so .
Background	Developing primary care-based services for the dying in the community is essential to reach and serve the whole population .
Background	Three typical `` trajectories '' or patterns of decline in the last year ( s ) of life have recently been described , and each of these may require different models of care to best meet the needs of patients .
Background	The palliative care approach must be urgently extended to patients with non-malignant conditions who have comparable concerns to and in some cases even greater and more prolonged unmet needs than cancer patients .
Background	Primary care professionals have the potential and ability to provide end-of-life care for most patients , given adequate training , resources and access to care facilities and specialist advice when needed .
Background	They are ideally placed to identify patients at diagnosis , hospital discharge or disease progression who might benefit from an early palliative care approach .
Background	In the UK , Australia and US , some important initiatives are gaining momentum to facilitate the delivery of primary palliative services .
Background	In Singapore , the involvement of family physicians in end-of-life care is very low .
Background	A local survey is currently being conducted to identify the challenges in getting more family physicians involved .
Result	Given adequate time and resources , community professionals throughout the world can provide effective , equitable , and accessible primary palliative care , and form a solid bridge of communication and support between primary and secondary care .

Background	The surgical treatment of children with spastic cerebral palsy should be directed at all the problems of the child rather than focusing on one problem area at a time .
Background	Although the difficulties encountered by these children can be divided into separate areas for discussion , treating one problem without consideration of the others will result in unnecessary additional hospitalization for subsequent operations .
Background	In addition , since each joint is intimately linked to another , surgical treatment of one joint problem may lead to worsening of an adjacent joint deformity unless it too is addressed .
Background	Thus , the surgical care of the lower extremities in spastic cerebral palsy requires that the entire patient be evaluated and all necessary surgical procedures be coordinated .

Background	Omega-3 PUFA of marine origin reduce adiposity in animals fed a high-fat diet .
Method	Our aim was to learn whether EPA and DHA could limit development of obesity and reduce cellularity of adipose tissue and whether other dietary FA could influence the effect of EPA/DHA .
Result	Weight gain induced by composite high-fat diet in C57BL/6J mice was limited when the content of EPA/DHA was increased from 1 to 12 % ( wt/wt ) of dietary lipids .
Result	Accumulation of adipose tissue was reduced , especially of the epididymal fat .
Result	Low ratio of EPA to DHA promoted the effect .
Result	A higher dose of EPA/DHA was required to reduce adiposity when admixed to diets that did not promote obesity , the semisynthetic high-fat diets rich in EFA , either alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA , 18:3 n-3 , the precursor of EPA and DHA ) or linoleic ( 18:2 n-6 ) ac
Result	Quantification of adipose tissue DNA revealed that except for the diet rich in ALA the reduction of epididymal fat was associated with 34-50 % depression of tissue cellularity , similar to the 30 % caloric restriction in the case of the high-fat composite di
Result	Changes in plasma markers and adipose gene expression indicated improvement of lipid and glucose metabolism due to EPA/DHA even in the context of the diet rich in ALA. .
Result	Our results document augmentation of the antiadipogenic effect of EPA/DHA during development of obesity and suggest that EPA/DHA could reduce accumulation of body fat by limiting both hypertrophy and hyperplasia of fat cells .
Result	Increased dietary intake of EPA/DHA may be beneficial regardless of the ALA intake .

Background	The impact of insurance on access to physician services among elderly individuals with chronic illnesses has far-reaching policy implications .
Background	Using a national probability sample of aged Medicare beneficiaries ( N = 5,543 ) , and controlling for severity of illness , comorbidities , and other covariates , we analyze this issue for the most prevalent , chronic disabling disease among the elderly : arthri
Result	The results from the two-part multivariate model ( logistic regression followed by ordinary least squares regression ) suggest that insurance status is a positive and statistically significant predictor of both initial access to care ( p < .01 ) , and amoun
Result	Taking the results of the two-part model , we conducted a microsimulation to estimate the increase in Medicare spending that would result if various types of Medicare supplemental insurance were provided to those who had none .
Result	Results suggest that Medicare expenditures would rise from $ 51 million to $ 59 million annually depending on the type of supplement provided .

Background	The goal of the current study was to compare the long-term ( 25-month ) safety and efficacy of zoledronic acid with pamidronate in patients with bone lesions secondary to advanced breast carcinoma or multiple myeloma .
Method	Patients ( n = 1648 ) were randomized to receive 4 mg or 8 mg ( reduced to 4 mg ) zoledronic acid as a 15-minute infusion or to receive 90 mg pamidronate as a 2-hour infusion every 3-4 weeks for 24 months .
Method	The primary endpoint was the proportion of patients with at least 1 skeletal-related event ( SRE ) , defined as pathologic fracture , spinal cord compression , radiation therapy , or surgery to bone .
Method	Secondary analyses included time to first SRE , skeletal morbidity rate , and multiple-event analysis .
Method	Hypercalcemia of malignancy ( HCM ) was included as an SRE in some secondary analyses .
Result	After 25 months of follow-up , zoledronic acid reduced the overall proportion of patients with an SRE and reduced the skeletal morbidity rate similar to pamidronate .
Result	Compared with pamidronate , zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) reduced the overall risk of developing skeletal complications ( including HCM ) by an additional 16 % ( P = 0.030 ) .
Result	In patients with breast carcinoma , zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) was significantly more effective than pamidronate , reducing the risk of SREs by an additional 20 % ( P = 0.025 ) compared with pamidronate and by an additional 30 % in patients receiving hormonal thera
Result	Zoledronic acid ( 4 mg ) and pamidronate were tolerated equally well .
Result	The most common adverse events included bone pain , nausea , and fatigue .
Result	Long-term follow-up data confirm that zoledronic acid was more effective than pamidronate in reducing the risk of skeletal complications in patients with bone metastases from breast carcinoma and was of similar efficacy in patients with multiple myeloma .

Method	STUDY DESIGN : Case report .
Background	To examine the unusual and unknown , severe side effect of a therapeutic dose of oral Baclofen on cardiac function .
Method	Spinal Cord Unit , Rehabilitation Centre Amsterdam , Amsterdam , The Netherlands .
Method	Review of relevant literature .
Method	A 53-year-old patient with an incomplete C2 tetrapareses ( ASIA B ) developed severe and painful muscle spasms together with respiratory failure and autonomic dysreflexia .
Method	Spasmolytic treatment was started .
Result	After the first admission of 5 mg of oral Baclofen , he collapsed in bed with extreme bradycardia , hypotension , hyperventilation and decreased oxygen saturation .
Result	A second dosage of 5 mg Baclofen resulted in the same complications .
Result	After implantation of a pacemaker , restarting oral Baclofen induced a pacemaker rhythm with episode of hypotension and respiratory failure and also a delirium .
Method	Intrathecal Baclofen also resulted in a pacemaker rhythm with hypotension and a decreased cardiac output .
Result	To our knowledge , this is the first time a severe heart conduction problem was induced in a spinal cord injury patient after a single therapeutic dose of Baclofen .
Result	In this case therapeutic oral Baclofen has caused serious cardiac conduction problems .

Background	Congenital insensitivity to pain with anhidrosis ( CIPA ) is a rare , hereditary , autonomic recessive disorder .
Background	The inability to perceive pain results from loss of nociceptive afferents , while anhidrosis is caused by loss of innervation to the sweat glands .
Background	Insensitivity to pain and mental retardation lead to self-inflicted injuries , corneal lacerations , painless bony fractures , joint deformities with consequent chronic osteomyelitis , and septic arthritis .
Background	There are only a few reports on the anesthetic management for patients with CIPA .
Background	We describe the anesthetic management of a young woman with CIPA receiving bilateral arthrodesis of the ankle .

Background	This case report describes a 63-year-old male patient with considerably impaired postoperative wound healing in the region of the lower extremities .
Method	After initial drug therapy for the pain was ineffectual , the patient was treated repeatedly through an epidural catheter .
Result	In the further course , an extensive spinal epidural abscess was diagnosed as an incidental finding without neurological symptoms .
Result	After taking into consideration the patient 's age and the risk factors present as well as inclusion of the subspecialties involved for an interdisciplinary assessment , the patient was successfully treated with a conservative approach .
Result	Our contribution concludes with a detailed discussion and comparison of the literature .

Background	Studies assessing the clinical and economic benefits of vaccination in the elderly have used different clinical outcomes ( e.g. hospitalizations for pneumonia or influenza versus hospitalizations for respiratory and cardiovascular causes ) and different out
Method	We explored the implications of these varying approaches by comparing two health economic analysis models of influenza vaccination of community-dwelling elderly persons .
Method	We developed computerized models using clinical data from 3 large US HMOs for the 1998-1999 and 1999-2000 influenza seasons .
Result	The primary health economic model used a broad definition of clinical events and outcome period and included hospitalizations for all respiratory and cardiovascular events that occurred during the entire influenza season .
Result	The alternative model used more restrictive definitions and included pneumonia or influenza hospitalizations occurring during the peak influenza season .
Result	The results of Monte Carlo simulation showed that , with the more inclusive primary model , influenza vaccination resulted in net medical care cost savings due to fewer respiratory or cardiovascular hospitalizations of Dollars 71/person vaccinated ( 5th-95th
Result	In contrast , the alternate model found costs of Dollars 3.50 / person vaccinated ( 5th-95th percentile Dollars -11 to 5 ) and net costs of Dollars 91/year of life saved ( 5th-95th percentile Dollars -309 to 126 ) .
Result	Our findings confirm that influenza vaccination of the elderly is most likely cost saving and supports policies and programs that advocate routine immunization of all persons 65 and older .
Result	They also highlight how different outcome definitions can influence the results of health economic analyses .

Background	Claims for personal injury after whiplash injury cost the economy of the United Kingdom more than pound 3 billion per year , yet only very few patients have radiologically demonstrable pathology .
Background	Those sustaining fractures of the cervical spine have been subjected to greater force and may reasonably be expected to have worse symptoms than those with whiplash injuries .
Background	Using the neck disability index as the outcome measure , we compared pain and functional disability in four groups of patients who had suffered injury to the cervical spine .
Result	After a mean follow-up of 3.5 years , patients who had sustained fractures of the cervical spine had significantly lower levels of pain and disability than those who had received whiplash injuries and were pursuing compensation ( p < 0.01 ) , but had simil
Result	Functional recovery after neck injury was unrelated to the physical insult .
Result	The increased morbidity in whiplash patients is likely to be psychological and is associated with litigation .

Background	Lateral epicondylitis ( tennis elbow ) is a frequently reported condition .
Background	A wide variety of treatment strategies has been described .
Background	As of yet , no optimal strategy has been identified .
Method	To assess the effectiveness of orthotic devices for the treatment of tennis elbow .
Method	We searched Medline , Embase , CINAHL , the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register , Current Contents up to May 1999 and reference lists from all retrieved articles .
Method	Experts on the subjects were approached for additional trials .
Method	All randomised clinical trials ( RCT ) describing individuals with diagnosed lateral epicondylitis and comparing the use of an orthotic device as a treatment strategy were evaluated for inclusion .
Method	Two reviewers independently assessed the validity of the included trials and extracted data on relevant outcome measures .
Method	Dichotomous outcomes were expressed as Relative Risks ( RRs ) and continuous outcomes as Standardised Mean Differences ( SMD ) , both with corresponding 95 % confidence intervals ( 95 % CI ) .
Method	Statistical pooling and subgroup analyses were intended MAIN RESULTS
Result	Five RCTs ( N per group 7-49 ) were included .
Result	Validity score ranged from 3-9 positive items out of 11 .
Result	Subgroup analyses were not performed due to the small number of trials .
Result	The limited number of included trials present few outcome measures and limited long-term results .
Result	Pooling was not possible due to large heterogeneity amongst trials .
Result	No definitive conclusions can be drawn concerning effectiveness of orthotic devices for lateral epicondylitis .
Result	More well-designed and well-conducted RCTs of sufficient power are warranted .

Method	To assess the effect of 3 oz of 80-proof alcohol on the frequency and severity of obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA ) , we studied six OSA patients and six healthy subjects on 2 nights .
Result	During the 1st night , when no alcohol was given , five patients demonstrated mild and one severe OSA episodes associated with a decline in arterial oxygen saturation to at least 92 % ( hypoxic event ) .
Result	On the 2nd night after ingesting 3 oz of alcohol just prior to bedtime , all the patients demonstrated a significant increase in the number and/or severity of hypoxic events compared with the no-alcohol night .
Result	Furthermore , the most severe hypoxic events occurred within 80 to 160 min after sleep onset , a significantly shorter latency after sleep onset than on the no-alcohol night .
Result	In contrast , the healthy subjects had no incidents of hypoxic events or breathing abnormalities during sleep after ingesting 0.8 gm/kg of alcohol .
Result	Possible mechanisms for these results are discussed .
Result	An OSA provocation test using alcohol is proposed during a 2nd night of evaluation for patients with mild to moderate or intermittent OSA conditions , but not for patients demonstrating severe hypoxic events or with alcohol intolerance .
Result	The alcohol provocation test would serve to determine the influence of alcohol on the frequency and severity of hypoxic events , providing the patient with a measure of the adverse effects of social drinking on their condition .

Background	Considerable evidence has now accumulated that permanent pacing may provide symptomatic benefit for at least some patients with CHF .
Background	Recently , the most promising results with left ventricular or biventricular pacing have been obtained .
Background	The data for improvement in survival with pacing is less compelling .
Background	The mortality of CHF associated with systolic dysfunction of the left ventricle remains high and arrhythmic deaths are frequent .
Background	Clinical trials such as the Sudden Cardiac Death Heart Failure Trial ( SCD-HeFT ) are currently underway to investigate the role of the implantable defibrillator in patients with heart failure .
Background	The development and general availability of ICDs with biventricular pacing capability may play an increasingly important role in the overall therapeutic plan for this group of patients to allow for optimization of functional status with pacing and protect

Method	This preliminary cross-sectional study was undertaken to determine if there were measurable relationships between posture , back muscle endurance and low back pain ( LBP ) in industrial workers with a reported history of flexion strain injury and flexion pai
Background	Clinical reports state that subjects with flexion pain disorders of the lumbar spine commonly adopt passive flexed postures such as slump sitting and present with associated dysfunction of the spinal postural stabilising musculature .
Method	However , to date there is little empirical evidence to support that patients with back pain , posture their spines differently than pain-free subjects .
Method	Subjects included 21 healthy industrial workers and 24 industrial workers with flexion-provoked LBP .
Method	Lifestyle information , lumbo-pelvic posture in sitting , standing and lifting , and back muscle endurance were measured .
Result	LBP subjects had significantly reduced back muscle endurance ( P < 0.01 ) .
Result	LBP subjects sat with less hip flexion , ( P = 0.05 ) , suggesting increased posterior pelvic tilt in sitting .
Result	LBP subjects postured their spines significantly closer to their end of range lumbar flexion in ` usual ' sitting than the healthy controls ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Correlations between increased time spent sitting , physical inactivity and poorer back muscle endurance were also identified .
Result	There were no significant differences found between the groups for the standing and lifting posture measures .
Result	These preliminary results support that a relationship may exist between flexed spinal postures , reduced back muscle endurance , physical inactivity and LBP in subjects with a history of flexion injury and pain .

Background	The origins of excessive daytime sleepiness in Parkinson disease ( PD ) are unclear .
Background	The authors hypothesize that orexin neurons , a recently identified wake promoting system , could contribute to its pathophysiology .
Method	They measured orexin-A/hypocretin -1 concentration in ventricular CSF in 19 parkinsonian patients and compared it with neurologic controls .
Result	Orexin levels were lower in patients and decreased with the severity of the disease .
Result	The authors suggest that orexin neurons contribute to daytime sleepiness in late stage PD .

Background	Microdiscectomy represents the gold standard in disc surgery on the lumbar spine .
Background	The remaining defect in the intervertebral disc space can be filled with a newly developed nucleus prosthesis presented in this paper .
Background	This prosthesis consists of polycarbonate urethane ( Sulene PCU ) , and takes the form of a memory coiling spiral .
Background	It can be easily implanted using the standard microdiscectomy approach with no further tissue damage .
Background	Biomechanical tests have shown that anatomical distances can be restored by the spiral for both the facet joints and the endplates .
Result	Endplate deformations are not statistically different when compared to intact conditions .
Background	Inclusion and exclusion criteria of an in vivo pilot study are presented .
Background	The paper describes the insertion setup for the spiral and the technique of implantation .
Method	Five patients have been supplied with the implant to date .
Background	The first results on postoperative magnetic resonance images are presented .

Background	Adverse events and medical errors affecting patient care are recognised internationally as major problems in medicine .
Background	The failure of health care professionals and health institutes to address this problem has threatened to undermine public confidence in the health care system as a whole .
Background	Less focus has been directed at the ethical issues raised by negative outcomes of care , specifically the issue of disclosure .
Background	Efforts to prevent negative outcomes of care must be supplemented by policies of increased honesty and openness with patients and their families about adverse incidents .
Background	Disclosure should be made easier , not riskier , for healthcare practitioners so clinicians can learn from mistakes and improve patient care .
Background	Ethical guidelines for error disclosure must distinguish between disciplinary action and reporting of adverse incidents .
Background	Disclosure of negative outcomes requires tact and good communication skills .
Background	Healthcare institutions should provide training for the clinicians in this area , if necessary .
Background	As a general rule , patients should be informed of unexpected adverse incidents as soon as possible .
Background	Medical staff should be rewarded for adverse event reporting and protected from institutional retaliation on account of errors made in health care.health care and public healthprofessional patient relationship

Background	The incidence of cancer increases exponentially with age and a large number of cancer patients are the older members of society .
Background	In many developing and some developed countries , the disease is usually detected at a stage when it is too late for aggressive anticancer therapy to have the desired effect .
Background	Most cancer patients suffer moderate to severe pain during the terminal phase of the disease .
Background	This pain is unpredictable and produces fear and anxiety in patients and family members .
Background	Morphine is the gold standard analgesic to control this pain , but its availability is restricted .
Background	The fear of diversion of morphine for non-medical uses has led to severe control on its availability .
Background	Studies have shown that diversion of medical morphine is not really an issue .
Background	This paper describes attempts to increase morphine availability through the courts in India .
Background	The courts have issued directives to improve the availability of the drug , yet 97 % of Indian patients have very poor access to the drug .
Background	There is a need to improve access to pain-free end-of-life care .
Background	In the absence of morphine , physicians lack experience in its use .
Background	They need to be educated to provide for their patients a pain-free life .
Background	Patients and their families need to be educated that cancer need not end in a painful death .

Background	Family-centred care ( FCC ) is a widely used model in paediatrics , and is felt instinctively to be the best way to provide care to children in hospital .
Background	However , its effectiveness has not been measured .
Background	The primary objective of this review was to assess the effects of family-centred models of care for hospitalised children when compared to standard or professionally-centred models of care , on child , family and health service outcomes .
Method	We searched MEDLINE ( 1966 to February 2004 ) ; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) , ( The Cochrane Library , Issue 2 , 2004 ) ; CINAHL ( 1982 to February 2004 ) ; PsycINFO ( 1972 to February 2004 ) ; ERIC ( 1982 to February 2004 ) ; Sociological Abstracts ( 1963 to February 2004 ) ; Social Work Abstracts ( 1977 to February 2004 ) ; and AMI ( Australasian Medical Index ) ( 1966 to February 2004 ) .
Method	We searched for randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) or quasi-randomised controlled trials including cluster randomised trials and controlled clinical trials ( CCTs ) , and controlled before and after studies ( CBAs ) , in which family-centred care models are compared with professionally-centred models of care for hospitalised children ( aged up to 12 years ) .
Method	Studies also had to meet criteria for family-centredness and methodological quality .
Method	In order to assess studies for the degree of family-centredness , this review utilised a modified rating scale based on a validated instrument .
Method	Two review authors undertook the searches , and three authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data .
Method	We contacted study authors for additional information .
Result	No studies met inclusion criteria , and hence no analysis could be undertaken .
Result	Five studies came close to inclusion .
Result	Three of these studies were excluded primarily because of inadequate or unclear blinding of outcome assessment , while for one study the age group was outside the parameters of this review .
Result	One study met most criteria , but the children were aged up to 18 years .
Result	We contacted the study authors who kindly provided a subset analysis , but on further examination the study also proved to have inadequate blinding procedures and so was not included .
Result	It was not possible to undertake any subset analysis of populations .
Result	Of the other studies identified through the search , 13 met some of the inclusion criteria but were reports of qualitative research and are reviewed elsewhere .
Result	This review has highlighted the dearth of high quality quantitative research about family-centred care .
Result	A much more stringent examination of the use of family-centred care as a model for care delivery to children and families in health services is needed .

Background	We present a case of an 8-year-old girl with collapse of her T6 and T7 vertebrae secondary to chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis .
Background	She presented with chronic abdominal pain and was found to have multiple bony lesions involving her spine , clavicle and mandible .
Background	Extensive investigations , including tissue biopsy , were unable to identify an infective cause and there was no response to a prolonged course of intravenous antibiotics .
Result	She made a good response to regular non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication .

Background	Employers and insurers are interested in being able to use cost-effective interventions for returning injured workers to the workplace .
Background	Unfortunately , truly objective information is lacking .
Background	The purpose of this and two subsequent review articles was to perform thorough scrutiny and methodologic comparison among all obtainable , published randomized and controlled studies on low back pain ( LBP ) interventions leading to return to work .
Method	The study was confined to English language articles published from 1975 through 1993 .
Method	Of more than 4,000 LBP citations , more than 500 were chosen for review .
Method	Of that number , 35 articles met the selection criteria of randomization , reasonable controls , and work return comparisons .
Method	This paper focuses on the 10 articles relating to interventions for acute ( less than 4 weeks ) LBP , and considers bed rest , exercise , spinal manipulation , back school , and case management .
Method	A 26-point quality system was used to compare the methodologic rigor of each article .
Result	This literature survey demonstrated the meager scientific foundations on which our industrial rehabilitation programs are based .

Background	The aim was to compare the accuracy of magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) and intraoperative consultation ( IC ) for the diagnosis of adnexal masses , with reference to final histology .
Method	MRI was performed in 136 women with sonographically indeterminate adnexal masses .
Method	IC included macroscopic and frozen-section examination .
Result	Macroscopic examination and MRI determined size , nature , and presence of vegetations or solid portions within masses .
Result	All masses were characterized as benign or malignant according to previously published MR imaging and histopathologic criteria .
Result	Sensitivities , specificities , and predictive values for the diagnosis of malignancy of MRI and IC were assessed .
Result	Histology revealed 168 adnexal masses ( 99 benign , 23 borderline and 46 invasive ) .
Result	Frozen sections were examined in 151 cases .
Result	Among the 151 adnexal masses studied by both MRI and IC , respective sensitivities , specificities , positive and predictive values of both methods for the diagnosis of malignancy were 89.7 % and 84.5 % , 91.4 % and 100 % , 86.7 % and 100 % , and 93.4 % and 91.3 % .
Method	Sensitivities of MR imaging and frozen section for the diagnosis of serous versus mucinous borderline tumors were 33.3 % and 93.3 % , and 62.5 % and 12.5 % , respectively .
Result	MRI is less accurate than IC for characterizing adnexal masses .
Result	However , MRI may increase the relevance of IC for borderline mucinous tumors .

Background	Heat and cold are commonly utilised in the treatment of low-back pain by both health care professionals and people with low-back pain .
Method	To assess the effects of superficial heat and cold therapy for low-back pain in adults .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Back Review Group Specialised register , the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( The Cochrane Library Issue 3 , 2005 ) , MEDLINE ( 1966 to October 2005 ) , EMBASE ( 1980 to October 2005 ) and other relevant databases .
Method	We included randomised controlled trials and non-randomised controlled trials that examined superficial heat or cold therapies in people with low-back pain .
Method	Two authors independently assessed methodological quality and extracted data , using the criteria recommended by the Cochrane Back Review Group .
Method	Nine trials involving 1117 participants were included .
Result	In two trials of 258 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain , heat wrap therapy significantly reduced pain after five days ( weighted mean difference ( WMD ) 1.06 , 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) 0.68 to 1.45 , scale range 0 to 5 ) compared t
Result	One trial of 90 participants with acute low-back pain found that a heated blanket significantly decreased acute low-back pain immediately after application ( WMD -32.20 , 95 % CI -38.69 to -25.71 , scale range 0 to 100 ) .
Result	One trial of 100 participants with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain examined the additional effects of adding exercise to heat wrap , and found that it reduced pain after seven days .
Result	There is insufficient evidence to evaluate the effects of cold for low-back pain , and conflicting evidence for any differences between heat and cold for low-back pain .
Result	The evidence base to support the common practice of superficial heat and cold for low back pain is limited and there is a need for future higher-quality randomised controlled trials .
Result	There is moderate evidence in a small number of trials that heat wrap therapy provides a small short-term reduction in pain and disability in a population with a mix of acute and sub-acute low-back pain , and that the addition of exercise further reduces p
Result	The evidence for the application of cold treatment to low-back pain is even more limited , with only three poor quality studies located .
Result	No conclusions can be drawn about the use of cold for low-back pain .
Result	There is conflicting evidence to determine the differences between heat and cold for low-back pain .

Method	A cross-sectional multicenter study was conducted to estimate the direct costs for each cause of spinal cord injury in the United States .
Method	Random samples of 227 new injuries and 508 persons 2-16 years postinjury were selected .
Method	Prospective data were collected during one year on all charges for emergency medical services , hospitalizations , attendant care , equipment , supplies , medications , environmental modifications , physician and outpatient services , nursing homes , household assistance , vocational rehabilitation , and miscellaneous items .
Result	In 1995 dollars , first year charges averaged $ 233,947 for vehicle crashes , $ 217,868 for violence , $ 295,643 for sports , $ 185,019 for falls and $ 208,762 for other causes .
Result	Recurring annual charges for each cause averaged $ 33,439 , $ 17,275 , $ 27,488 , $ 26,238 and $ 23,510 , respectively .
Result	Using average age at time of injury for each cause , a 2 % real discount rate , and the most recent survival data from the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center , average lifetime charges for each cause were $ 969,659 , $ 613,345 , $ 950,973 , $ 630,453 and
Result	Given an estimated 10,000 new cases of spinal cord injury occurring each year of which 35.9 % are caused by vehicle crashes , 29.5 % are caused by violence , 20.3 % are caused by falls , 7.3 % are caused by sports , and 7 % result from other causes , annual aggrega
Result	Total direct costs for all causes of SCI in the United States are $ 7.736 billion .

Method	American Indian ( AI ) parents of children involved with child welfare were compared to White , Black and Hispanic parents on mental health and substance abuse problems and access to treatment .
Method	Data came from the National Study of Child and Adolescent Well-Being , a longitudinal study of a nationally representative sample of children aged 0-14 years involved with child welfare .
Background	Weighted statistics provided population estimates , and multivariate logistic regression was used to predict the likelihood of caregivers receiving mental health or substance abuse services .
Result	There were significant disparities in the likelihood of receiving mental health , but not substance abuse , services .
Result	Unmet need for mental health and substance abuse treatment characterized all parents in this study .
Result	AI parents fared the worst in obtaining mental health treatment .
Result	Parents of children at home and of older children were less likely to access mental health or substance abuse treatment .

Background	Individuals with end stage renal disease ( ESRD ) , most of whom are insured by Medicare , are generally prohibited from enrolling in Medicare managed care plans ( MCPs ) .
Background	CMS offered ESRD patients the opportunity to participate in an ESRD managed care demonstration mandated by Congress .
Background	The demonstration tested whether managed care systems would be of interest to ESRD patients and whether these approaches would be operationally feasible and efficient for treating ESRD patients .
Background	This article examines the structure , implementation , and operational outcomes of the three demonstration sites , focusing on : the structure of these managed care programs for ESRD patients , requirements needed to attract and enroll patients , and the challe

Background	OBJECTIVES -- To examine the effects of early case management for patients with severe head injury on outcome , family function , and provision of rehabilitation services .
Method	DESIGN -- Prospective controlled unmatched non-randomised study for up to two years after injury .
Method	SETTING -- Four district general hospitals and two university teaching hospitals , each with neurosurgical units , in east central , north , and north east London and its environs .
Method	SUBJECTS -- 126 patients aged 16-60 recruited acutely and sequentially after severe head injury .
Method	All received standard rehabilitation services in each of the six hospitals and districts : case management was also provided for the 56 patients admitted to three of the hospitals .
Method	MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES -- Standard measures of patients ' physical and cognitive impairment ; disability and handicap ; and affective , behavioural , and social functioning and of relatives ' affective and social functioning .
Method	Relatives ' perception of burden ; changes in patients ' and relatives ' housing , financial , vocational , recreational , and medical needs ; and ongoing requirements for care and support ; and the amount and type of paramedical input provided were assessed with structured questionnaires .
Result	RESULTS -- For a given severity of injury , case management increased the chance and range of contact with inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation services .
Result	However , duration of contact was not increased by case management , and there was no demonstrable improvement in outcome in the case managed group .
Result	Any trends were in favour of the control group and could be accounted for by group differences in initial severity of injury .
Result	CONCLUSIONS -- Widespread introduction of early case management of patients after severe head injury is not supported , and early case management is not a substitute for improvement in provision of skilled and specialist rehabilitation for patients .

Background	Language skills undergo rapid development during the early childhood years , so that by the time children start school they are competent communicators with well established syntactic , semantic and pragmatic abilities for their age .
Background	Little is known about the effects of traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) on the acquisition of these language skills during the early childhood years .
Method	This study used a prospective , cross-sectional design to compare the language abilities of young children following their head injury .
Method	Fifteen brain injured children , aged between 4-6 years , were divided into three injury groups depending on severity of injury , i.e. mild , moderate and severe , and compared with a matched community control group .
Method	They were assessed within 3 months of sustaining their injury on a range of expressive and receptive language tests , and free speech conversation samples , which were analysed pragmatically and syntactically .
Result	Results indicated that the severe group performed most poorly on language tasks .
Result	It is suggested that linguistic evaluation is an important component of follow up at least for the severe head injured population .

Background	This study evaluates the reliability of type 3 portable monitoring ( PM ) in a home setting .
Method	Prospective study in sleep laboratory .
Method	Type 3 device ( Stardust II ) was evaluated in comparison with standard polysomnography ( PSG ) among patients with obstructive sleep apnea .
Method	Quality of recorded data and agreement between PM and PSG results were evaluated .
Result	Low quality of recorded data was observed only in 5 cases .
Result	Pattern of disordered breathing was recognized correctly by PM .
Result	Apnea/hypopnea index ( AHI ) correlated well with a mean bias of 3.7 + / - 13.1 / h.
Result	High sensitivity of PM was observed generally , whereas specificity was lower in mild patients .
Result	AHI , record time , and sleep position were found to be the main factors that would affect the accuracy of PM .
Result	Type 3 PM is feasible in unattended home-setting for routine examination .
Result	Influence of the factors above should be comprehensively considered especially for mild patients .

Background	Adjunctive dexamethasone increases survival from tuberculous meningitis , but the underlying mechanism is unclear .
Background	We aimed to determine the effect of dexamethasone on cerebral MRI changes and their association with intracerebral inflammatory responses and clinical outcome in adults treated for tuberculous meningitis .
Method	Cerebral MRI was undertaken , when possible , at diagnosis and after 60 days and 270 days of treatment in adults with tuberculous meningitis admitted to two hospitals in Vietnam .
Method	Patients were randomly assigned either dexamethasone ( n = 24 ) or placebo ( n = 19 ) and received 9 months of treatment with standard first-line antituberculosis drugs .
Method	We assessed associations between MRI findings , treatment allocation , and resolution of fever , coma , cerebrospinal fluid inflammation , and neurological outcome .
Result	83 scans were done for 43 patients : 19 given placebo , 24 given dexamethasone .
Result	Basal meningeal enhancement ( 82 % ) and hydrocephalus ( 77 % ) were the most common presenting findings .
Result	Fewer patients had hydrocephalus after 60 days of treatment with dexamethasone than after placebo treatment ( p = 0.217 ) .
Result	Tuberculomas developed in 74 % of patients during treatment and in equal proportions in the treatment groups ; they were associated with long-term fever , but not relapse or poor clinical outcome .
Result	The basal ganglia were the most common site of infarction ; the proportion with infarction after 60 days was halved in the dexamethasone group ( 27 % vs 58 % , p = 0.130 ) .
Result	Dexamethasone may affect outcome from tuberculous meningitis by reducing hydrocephalus and preventing infarction .
Result	The effect may have been under-estimated because the most severe patients could not be scanned .

Method	The present study examined the relationship between the worsening of symptoms across a 3-5-year period of time and self-reported physical activity in a sample of 51 individuals with multiple sclerosis ( MS ) .
Method	Of the 51 participants , 35 reported a worsening of symptoms over the 3-5-year period of time .
Result	The worsening of symptoms was associated with significantly and moderately lower levels of self-reported physical activity independent of depression and EDSS scores and MS-disease course ( P = 0.04 ) .
Result	This study provides novel evidence that a worsening of symptoms is associated with lower levels of physical activity in individuals with MS.

Background	Normal skeletal integrity is maintained by physiological bone turnover through a coupled process of bone resorption , mediated by osteoclasts , followed by new bone formation , mediated by osteoblasts .
Background	Major features of the pathogenesis of cancer-associated skeletal destruction are enhanced osteoclast-mediated bone resorption and disruption of normal bone formation .
Background	In this article , the literature on the pathogenesis and clinical manifestations of metastatic bone disease is discussed .
Background	Animal and clinical trials investigating novel bone targeted agents , emphasizing the bisphosphonates , are critically assessed .
Background	The most frequent clinical manifestations of bone metastases are pain , fracture , immobility , spinal cord compression , and hypercalcemia .
Background	New treatments under study for patients with bone metastases include agents specifically targeted to the skeleton such as bone-seeking radioisotopes and bisphosphonates .
Background	Studies in animal models of metastatic bone disease show that these bisphosphonates are able to inhibit tumor-induced osteolysis and are potentially useful in this condition .
Background	Bisphosphonates have been investigated in several clinical trials of patients with skeletal metastases from breast cancer , prostate cancer , and multiple myeloma .
Background	Overall , the studies investigating bone targeted radioisotopes or bisphosphonates for the treatment of morbidity due to skeletal metastases have been inconclusive .
Background	An improved understanding of the pathogenesis of metastatic bone disease and preclinical studies with bisphosphonates suggest that these agents may have a role in the treatment of this disorder .
Background	Additional trials of new generation bisphosphonates , employing a rigorously controlled , randomized study design with adequate numbers of subjects , are needed to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of this class of agents in this setting .

Background	Descending noradrenergic pathways contribute to feedback inhibition of pain by releasing norepinephrine in the spinal cord .
Background	Noradrenergic nuclei in the pons contain abundant alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors .
Method	We assessed the contribution of pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors to endogenous regulation of pain in nerve-injured rats .
Method	Tactile allodynia and mechanical hyperalgesia were assessed in the injured dermatome and heat nociception in an uninjured dermatome .
Method	Atipamezole , an alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptor antagonist , or saline was administered systemically or microinjected into the locus coeruleus , the lateral parabrachial nucleus , the central nucleus of the amygdala , the midbrain periaqueductal gray , and/or through an
Result	Atipamezole administered systemically , into the amygdala or the periaqueductal gray had no significant effects on pain behavior .
Result	Atipamezole ( 0.3-5 microg ) microinjected into the pons , the locus coeruleus or the lateral parabrachial nucleus , produced a selective and dose-related antiallodynia , which was reversed by i.t. administration of atipamezole ( 5 microg ) .
Result	I.t. administration of atipamezole alone ( 5 microg ) produced thermal hypersensitivity in the non-neuropathic segment ( tail ) of nerve-injured animals .
Result	In sham-operated controls , i.t. administration of atipamezole had no effect .
Result	Suppression of heat nociception in uninjured dermatomes of nerve-injured but not the control animals following i.t. administration of atipamezole indicates that nerve injury produced a tonic activation of noradrenergic feedback inhibition acting on spinal
Result	In parallel , antiallodynia induced by pontine administration of atipamezole indicates that nerve injury induces a tonic activation of pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors that promotes neuropathic hypersensitivity by attenuating descending inhibition .
Result	Thus , spinal and pontine alpha ( 2 ) - adrenoceptors have opposite effects on pain-related behavior in neuropathic animals .

Background	The JAR human placental choriocarcinoma cell line transports serotonin , accumulating the monoamine inside the cell against a concentration gradient .
Background	The transport is energized by an NaCl gradient .
Result	Tricyclic ( imipramine and desipramine ) and non-tricyclic ( paroxetine and fluoxetine ) antidepressants inhibit the transporter markedly , but reserpine and 5-hydroxytryptophan do not .
Result	Ouabain , gramicidin , and nigericin , which reduce or abolish the transmembrane Na + gradient , and phloridzin , which interferes with glucose transport into the cells , inhibit the transport .
Result	Preincubation of the cells with glucose-free medium also causes similar inhibition .
Result	The activity of the serotonin transporter in this cell line is stimulated in response to overnight ( 16-h ) incubation with increasing concentrations of cholera toxin ( 0.1-1 ,000 ng/ml ) .
Result	Under these conditions the stimulation is maximal at 10 ng/ml cholera toxin ( 3.1 + / - 0.2-fold ) .
Result	Cholera toxin increases the cAMP content of these cells by several hundredfold within 2 h.
Result	Isobutylmethylxanthine ( 100 microM ) , dibutyryl cAMP ( 100 microM ) , and forskolin ( 100 microM ) mimic the action of cholera toxin , eliciting a 1.6-2 .5 - fold stimulation of the serotonin transporter activity .
Result	The stimulatory effect of cholera toxin is antagonized significantly by simultaneous incubation of the cells with 50 microM N - ( 2-aminoethyl ) -5 - isoquinolinesulfonamide , a protein kinase inhibitor .
Result	The effect of cholera toxin on serotonin transport is specific because , under similar conditions , cholera toxin inhibits 3-O-methyl-D-glucose transport and does not influence taurine transport in this cell line .
Result	There is also no significant change in the protein content of the cells after cholera toxin treatment .
Result	Kinetic analysis reveals that cholera toxin causes an increase in the maximal velocity ( 7.89 + / - 0.67 to 17.55 + / - 1.06 pmol/mg of protein/5 min ) and a decrease in the Michaelis-Menten constant ( 0.52 + / - 0.09 to 0.29 + / - 0.04 microM ) .
Result	These data show that the JAR human placental choriocarcinoma cell line expresses a high affinity serotonin transporter that is sensitive to inhibition by antidepressants and that the activity of the transporter is under cAMP-dependent regulation .

Background	NAD ( P ) H : quinone oxidoreductase ( DT-diaphorase ; DTD ) plays a major role in activating mitomycin C ( MMC ) in human colon and gastric carcinoma cell lines .
Background	Thus , measurement of DTD in clinical tumor samples could be beneficial in designing adjuvant chemotherapy .
Result	We explored immunological quantitation of DTD protein using a monoclonal antibody against DTD , demonstrating a close correlation between protein expression and enzyme activity of DTD in colon and gastric carcinoma cell lines and in colorectal tumor sample
Result	This indicates that such immunoblot analysis is a simple alternative method for quantitating DTD in clinically excised samples .
Result	In most colorectal tumor samples , the tumors expressed larger amounts of DTD than did the peripheral normal tissues , suggesting a selective toxicity of MMC toward tumor cells .
Result	Also tumors with nodal metastases showed significantly higher DTD levels than did tumors without metastasis .
Result	These results raise the possibility that DTD expression is related to tumorigenesis and malignant progression of colorectal tumors .
Result	Measurement of DTD by the immunological method described here could be beneficial in designing a rational adjuvant chemotherapy with MMC .

Background	This article considers the role of cost-effectiveness studies in the formulary and disease-state management decisions of managed-care entities .
Background	In a recently published symposium volume [ Soc Sci Med 1997 ; 45 ( 4 ) : 505-647 ] , US managed-care entities were found to be among the leaders in applying cost-effectiveness studies to healthcare decisions .
Background	At the same time , a number of barriers were identified that hinder their wider usage in the managed-care sector .
Background	These factors are analysed in this paper along with the prospects for future changes .
Background	The potential roles for government policy in this area are also discussed in the final section of the article .

Background	Clonidine has been suggested as an alternative pharmacotherapy for patients with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) and comorbid tic disorders .
Method	To examine the efficacy of clonidine in this population of children , the use of clonidine in the treatment of children with ADHD with and without comorbid tic disorders was examined in a retrospective chart review of 54 children over a 4-year period .
Method	Treatment was administered openly to these patients in a Pediatric Psychopharmacology Clinic , and response was assessed using clinical global improvement measures .
Result	Clonidine treatment resulted in improvement in both the ADHD ( 39/54 ; 72 % ) and tic symptoms ( 18/24 ; 75 % ) groups .
Result	The findings suggested that the children with ADHD with comorbid tic disorders ( 23/24 ; 96 % ) have a more frequent positive behavioral response to clonidine than children with ADHD without comorbid tic disorders ( 16/30 ; 53 % ) .
Result	This report provides further support of a role for clonidine in the treatment of children with ADHD , particularly for those with comorbid tic disorders .

Background	To examine pediatricians ' attitudes toward children 's participation in randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) and identify possible barriers to participation .
Method	Qualitative analysis of focus group discussions involving 16 pediatricians and 5 trainees from a pediatric teaching hospital in Australia .
Method	Doctors varied in occupation , experience , research activity , age , sex , ethnicity , and parenthood experience .
Method	A professional facilitator conducted the semistructured group discussions .
Method	The transcribed audiotapes were analyzed by theme linkage by using the constant comparative method .
Result	Pediatricians believed parents balanced perceived gains and risks when deciding about trial participation .
Result	They thought the child 's condition , parents ' health beliefs and personal attributes , and the doctors ' beliefs and relationship with the investigators influenced parents ' attitudes .
Result	Perceived gains included professional benefits for pediatricians , improved patient care , convenience for the families and themselves , and scientific advancement .
Result	Perceived risks included inconvenience , inadequate resources , and potential harms to the patient and doctor-patient relationship .
Result	Pediatricians with previous research experience were most knowledgeable about RCTs and perceived greatest gains from trial participation .
Result	Pediatricians ' personal treatment preferences hindered trial support .
Result	This study suggests that children 's participation in trials will be enhanced by increasing pediatricians ' awareness of RCTs through education and involvement in trials and by improving the gains-risk balance.biomedical and behavioral researchempirical app

Background	People with severe hemophilia A or B , X-linked bleeding disorders due to decreased blood levels of coagulants , suffer recurrent bleeding into joints and soft tissues .
Background	Before clotting factor concentrates were available , most people with severe hemophilia developed crippling musculoskeletal deformities .
Background	Clotting factor concentrate prophylaxis aims to preserve joint function by converting severe hemophilia ( factor VIII or IX less than 1 % ) into a clinically milder form of the disease .
Background	Prophylaxis has long been used in Sweden , but not universally adopted because of medical , psychosocial , and cost controversies .
Background	Use of clotting factor concentrates is the single largest predictor of cost in treating hemophilia .
Method	To determine the effectiveness of clotting factor concentrate prophylaxis in the management of people with hemophilia A or B.
Method	We searched the Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group 's Trials Register comprising references from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of journals and abstract books .
Method	Reference lists of relevant articles were reviewed.Most recent search January 2002 .
Method	Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) evaluating people with severe hemophilia A or B , receiving prophylactic clotting factor concentrates .
Method	Two reviewers independently reviewed studies for eligibility , assessed methodological quality and extracted data .
Result	Twenty-nine studies were identified , of which four ( including 37 participants ) were eligible for inclusion .
Result	Three studies evaluated hemophilia A ; one showed a decrease in frequency of joint bleeds with prophylaxis compared to placebo ( non-physiological dose ) , with a rate difference ( RD ) -10.80 ( 95 % confidence interval ( CI ) -16.33 to -5.27 ) bleeds per year .
Result	The remaining two studies evaluating hemophilia A compared two prophylaxis regimens , one study showed no difference in joint bleed frequency , RD -5.04 ( 95 % CI -17.02 to 6.94 ) bleeds per year and another failed to demonstrate an advantage of factor VIII dos
Result	The fourth study evaluated hemophilia B and showed fewer joint bleeds with weekly ( 15 IU/kg ) versus bi-weekly ( 7.5 IU/kg ) prophylaxis , RD -3.30 ( 95 % CI -5.50 to - 1.10 ) bleeds per year .
Result	There is insufficient evidence to determine whether prophylactic clotting factor concentrates decrease bleeding and bleeding-related complications in hemophilia A or B , compared to placebo , on-demand treatment , or prophylaxis based on pharmacokinetic data
Result	Well-designed RCTs are needed to assess the effectiveness of prophylactic clotting factor concentrates .
Result	Two clinical trials are ongoing .

Background	Cervicogenic headache is a chronic hemicranial pain , usually occurring daily .
Method	This randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial evaluated the effectiveness of nerve stimulator-guided occipital nerve blockade in the treatment of cervicogenic headache .
Method	The reduction in analgesic consumption was the primary outcome measure .
Method	Fifty adult patients diagnosed with cervicogenic headache were randomly divided into two equal groups of 25 patients each .
Result	All patients in both groups received greater and lesser occipital blocks , whereas only 16 patients in each group received facial nerve blockade in association with the occipital blocks .
Result	The control group received injections of an equivalent volume of preservative-free normal saline .
Result	Pain was assessed using the visual analog scale ( VAS ) and the Total Pain Index ( TPI ) .
Result	Forty-seven patients entered into the final analysis as three patients were lost to follow-up .
Result	Anesthetic block was effective in reducing the VAS and the TPI by approximately 50 % from baseline values ( P = 0.0001 ) .
Method	Analgesic consumption , duration of headache and its frequency , nausea , vomiting , photophobia , phonophobia , decreased appetite , and limitations in functional activities were significantly less in block group compared to control group ( P < 0.05 ) .
Result	The nerve stimulator-guided occipital nerve blockade significantly relieved cervicogenic headache and associated symptoms at two weeks following injection .

Background	Spasticity and hypertonicity are common components of the upper motor neuron syndrome ( UMNS ) , which is seen in various neurologic conditions .
Background	Pharmacologic agents that can be administered through different routes can play an important part in treatment aimed at minimizing complications , pain , and functional deficits caused by UMNS .
Background	They can be administered by way of an oral , transdermal , intramuscular , or intrathecal route and can play an important role in the management of UMNS .
Background	This article reviews UMNS , the functional consequences that can result from it , individual agents , and their indications , complications , and adverse effects .
Background	Algorithms for treatment of UMNS with pharmacologic agents , and these agents ' efficacy in different neurologic populations , is reviewed .

Background	To identify protective behaviors and risk factors associated with the development of pressure ulcers ( PUs ) after spinal cord injury ( SCI ) .
Method	A cross-sectional study to evaluate the relationship between protective behaviors and risk factors and 3 PU outcomes : a current PU , PUs within the past year , and ever hospitalized for a PU .
Method	Logistic regression was then used to identify the variables most strongly associated with PU outcomes .
Method	Data were collected by case managers employed by the Arkansas Spinal Cord Commission , an agency that provides services to persons with SCI .
Method	A total of 650 of 991 eligible individuals with SCI from a statewide population-based SCI registry participated .
Method	All ambulatory participants were eliminated , leaving 560 patients .
Method	Average age of the respondents was 27.2 years at injury ( median age , 25yr ) and 43.6 years at the time of the survey ( median age , 42yr ) .
Method	A 200-item interview was developed to measure a broad range of outcomes associated with SCI ( including secondary conditions such as PUs ) , as well as risk and protective behaviors related to these outcomes .
Result	Several characteristics and behaviors were related to PU outcomes .
Result	Being underweight ( odds ratio [ OR ] = 2.18 ) , having used medications to treat pain ( OR = 1.33 ) or spasticity ( OR = 1.31 ) , having smoked at least 100 cigarettes over a lifetime ( OR = 1.31 ) , and being a current smoker ( OR = 1.21 ) were associated with having
Result	Having completed a college degree ( OR = 0.23 ) , being married ( OR = 0.49 ) , and being currently employed ( OR = 0.54 ) were associated with a lower risk of having a PU in the past year .
Result	Being underweight ( OR = 1.94 ) , having a history of incarceration ( OR = 1.78 ) , having attempted suicide ( OR = 1.71 ) , and reporting alcohol or drug treatment ( OR = 1.65 ) were associated with having been hospitalized for a PU since injury .
Result	This study was unable to evaluate the efficacy of traditional health maintenance or protective behaviors for PUs , such as weight shifts or skin checks .
Result	PUs are least likely to occur among individuals who maintain normal weight , return to a work and family role , and who do not have a history of tobacco use , suicidal behaviors , or self-reported incarcerations , or alcohol or drug abuse .
Result	Additional research is needed to identify better the risk factors for the occurrence of PUs .

Background	Over the past 10 years , studies of the impact of spinal cord injuries on female sexuality have expanded from questionnaire studies in small populations with unknown levels and degrees of injury to laboratory-based analyses of women with known injury patte
Background	These studies have provided detailed information on how specific injury patterns affect specific aspects of the female sexual response .
Background	Research findings have supported the hypothesis that the sympathetic nervous system is regulatory for psychogenic genital vasocongestion and that orgasm is a reflex response of the autonomic nervous system .
Background	Based on these results , a new system for the classification of sexual function in women with spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is proposed .
Background	Moreover , studies related to the treatment of sexual dysfunction in women with cord injury are reviewed .

Background	Fifty-five of 100 chronic headache patients , referred consecutively to a neurologist , exhibited craniomandibular pain during examination of the stomatognathic system .
Background	This suggests a possible relationship between the headaches and the condition of the masticatory muscles .
Method	The patients were randomly divided into two groups .
Method	One group was treated by a neurologist and the other by a dentist .
Result	More of the patients treated by the dentist reported a decreased intensity of the headache ( P less than 0.025 ) or a reduction in medication ( P less than 0.05 ) .
Result	Changes in headache frequency were also reported more often in the craniomandibular disorder treatment group ( P less than 0.025 ) .

Background	Carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ) is an early marker of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) .
Method	This study aimed to evaluate CIMT value for CAD prediction in pre-and postmenopausal women referred for coronary angiography with angina-like symptoms and a positive result of the treadmill test .
Method	The study comprised 321 women referred for coronary angiography with symptoms suggesting CAD .
Method	Carotid intima-media thickness was measured in common , bifurcation , and internal carotid artery , and expressed as the mean maximum value .
Result	Coronary angiography showed coronary stenosis > / = 50 % in 211 ( 65.7 % ) women , including 27 with regular menses ( 47.3 + / - 3.4 years ) and 184 postmenopausal ( 65.8 + / - 7.2 years ) .
Result	Normal coronary arteries were found in 110 women : 17 ( 47.3 + / - 4.9 years ) with regular menses and 93 postmenopausal ( 64.3 + / - 6.5 years ) .
Result	The highest CIMT values were found in postmenopausal CAD women ( 1.360 + / - 0.32 mm ) , as compared to premenopausal with CAD ( 1.178 + / - 0.36 mm , P = 0.005 ) , pre - ( 0.860 + / - 0.23 mm , P < 0.001 ) and postmenopausal ( 1.022 + / - 0.30 mm , P < 0.001 ) women with
Result	Carotid intima-media thickness ( P < 0.001 ) , hyperlipidemia ( P = 0.018 ) , and myocardial infarction ( P < 0.001 ) , but not menopause itself or the number of years since menses cessation , were found to be independent CAD predictors .
Result	By receiver operating characteristic calculation , the mean maximum CIMT cut-off values discriminating CAD were lower in premenopausal ( > / = 0.933 mm ) than in postmenopausal women ( > / = 1.075 mm ; P < 0.05 ) resulting in similar sensitivity ( 85.2 % and 8
Result	Carotid intima-media thickness is a strong CAD predictor in both pre-and postmenopausal women , in contrast to the menopausal status .

Background	Cementoplasty , performed either as percutaneous vertebroplasty or kyphoplasty , has become well established as an effective technique to treat painful vertebral body fractures .
Background	It has low complication rates , is successful in alleviating pain , and improves the patients ' mobility and quality of life .
Background	A series of questions remain open though or are the subject of controversial debate ; for example , the results of several biomechanical studies are in part contradictory .
Background	Clinical data on subsequent fractures are also still inadequate , although the majority of studies show no elevated rate of subsequent fractures following treatment with cementoplasty in comparison to the natural course in patients with osteoporotic fractu
Result	Biomechanical considerations on whether restoration of the vertebral body 's normal shape could reduce the rate of subsequent fractures still need scientific substantiation.Both surgical methods are employed in our clinic .
Result	Kyphoplasty seems to us to be indicated when the height of the anterior portion of the vertebral body is reduced by one-third compared to the norm or a kyphosis angle of more than 15-20 degrees is present .
Result	The goals of therapy are restoring the shape and reducing the kyphosis angle .
Result	This can only succeed , however , in fractures that are not older than 3 weeks .
Result	In all other cases vertebroplasty is performed .

Background	To compare the outcome of non-operative treatment with the outcome of surgical intraventricular drainage for patients with posttraumatic hydrocephalus including complications , mortality and favorable outcome .
Method	Thirty-nine patients were assigned to a nonoperative treatment group and 38 patents to a surgical intraventricular drainage group .
Method	Each patient 's outcome was evaluated 3 years after treatment by using Glasgow Outcome Scale .
Result	In the nonoperative treatment group the rate of favor able outcome ( good recovery or mild disability ) was 89.74 % ( 35 of 39 patients ) and the mortality was 2.56 % ( 1 of 39 patients ) .
Result	In the surgical intraventricular drainage group the rate of favorable outcome was 71.05 % ( 27 of 38 patients ) and the mortality was 13.16 % ( 5 of 38 patients ; P < 0.05 ) .
Result	Mortality was not significantly different between the two groups .
Result	Nonoperative treatment may be better than surgical intraventricular drainage for patients with posttraumatic hydrocephalus .

Background	Pediatric and adolescent athletes presenting with back pain are much more likely to have a pathologic cause for their symptoms than are adult patients .
Background	For this reason , it is important for those caring for younger athletes to maintain a high index of suspicion for some of the more common pathologic causes of back pain in this population .
Background	Diagnostic evaluation should be undertaken more quickly in pediatric and adolescent athletes .
Background	Sports-related diagnoses that must be considered include disc-related back pain , atypical Scheuermann 's kyphosis , spondylolysis , and spondylolisthesis .
Background	Patients of this age may also present with conditions not associated with activity , including discitis , classic Scheuermann 's disease , rheumatologic disease , and spinal tumors .
Background	History and physical exam provide valuable information to help guide further diagnostic studies which , in turn , will determine necessary treatment .
Background	No definitive studies are available regarding the diagnosis and treatment of spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis .
Background	Health professionals need to consider the expertise of a local radiologist when deciding upon diagnostic imaging procedures .
Background	The athlete 's age and sport played can contribute to the appropriate treatment plan .

Background	We compared reactivity of EEG to external stimuli -- an easily and quickly available measure -- with the central conduction time ( CCT ) of the somatosensory evoked potentials , currently the most-used electrophysiologic method to predict outcome in severe head
Method	In 50 patients , comatose subsequent to SHI , we measured EEG reactivity and CCT within 48 to 72 hours and compared them with the outcome after 1.5 years .
Result	Using discriminant analysis , EEG reactivity correctly classified 92 % , CCT classified 82 % , and both measures together classified 98 % of the patients into globally good or bad outcome groups .
Result	GCS allowed a correct classification in only 72 % and , combined with either of the two electrophysiologic measures , did not further increase predictability .
Result	EEG reactivity is an excellent long-term global outcome predictor in SHI , superior to CCT and GCS .
Result	When the two electrophysiologic measures are combined , a prognostic accuracy is achieved that is better than that of any other reported method .

Method	A very low calorie formula diet ( VLCD ) with physician and dietitian support was used to achieve and maintain weight loss in 408 overweight patients , referred by consultants because of concurrent health problems .
Background	The patients had failed to lose weight on conventional diets , and their obesity was considered a significant risk factor in their health .
Result	Using 330 or 405 kcal formula diets , the mean rate of weight loss in men was 1.87 kg/week and in women 1.27 kg/week .
Result	Women sustained the dieting process over longer periods , with a time to maximum weight loss of 5-72 weeks ( mean 24 ) compared to the achievement in men of 4-40 weeks ( mean 12.5 ) .
Result	Sixteen per cent of the patients dropped out in the first 3 weeks .
Result	Of the remaining 84 per cent , weight loss to within 80-100 per cent BMI 25 ( target weight ) was achieved by 53 per cent men and 46 per cent women who had completed more than 5 weeks dieting .
Result	Women were more complaint than men at weight maintenance follow-up and 58 per cent of the start group were observed for more than 50 weeks ( 50-164 ) , only 10 per cent experiencing weight regain of 20-70 per cent .
Result	Physician support was required to adjust medication in patients attending .
Result	Complications of obesity were remarkably improved after weight loss .

Background	There are increasing numbers of children orphaned by AIDS , especially in countries without universal free AIDS treatment .
Background	As institutionalization is associated with bad health and developmental outcomes , we have identified the factors associated with the institutionalization of AIDS orphans in a population-based survey in a city in southern Brazil .
Method	Using AIDS mortality and healthcare registries from 1998 to 2001 , a cross-sectional study was conducted among the caregivers of children aged 0-14 years who were the survivors of parents dying of AIDS in Porto Alegre .
Method	Data were collected by a household survey using a structured questionnaire .
Method	Out of 1131 orphans identified , 75.4 % of their caregivers participated .
Result	Among participants , 70 % had lost their father and 50 % their mother , and 21 % had lost both parents .
Result	At the time of the survey , 41 % of the children lived with the mother , 25 % lived with grandparents and 5 % lived in institutions .
Result	In multivariate analysis , HIV positivity multiplied the child 's chances of living in an institution by a factor of 4.6 , losing its mother by 5.9 , losing both parents by 3.7 , and having a non-white mother by 4.0 .
Result	This study provides population-based data on what has become of the children of individuals dying of AIDS .
Result	Improving the quality of life and averting the institutionalization of AIDS orphans requires interventions to promote the survival of mothers living with AIDS , as well as specific interventions for child family placement .
Result	Reducing the stigma of HIV infection in children and racial discrimination present challenges in Brazil .

Background	There is an increasing interest in using deoxypyridinoline ( D-Pyd ) ( Pyrilinks-D ) and bone specific alkaline phosphatase ( BAP ) ( Alkphase-B ) or osteocalcin tests for detecting and monitoring risk persons for osteoporosis .
Background	Bone specificity is high , and the possibilities of detecting high bone turnover and fast bone losers in postmenopausal women is good , especially in women between 55 and 65 years of age .
Background	The tests are also useful for monitoring therapy , evaluating drug effectiveness and detecting poor compliance .
Background	The deoxypyridinoline ( D-Pyd ) - test must show a repeated high value prior to treatment ( 2 to 3 times over a period of one month ) , to allow for day to day variations .
Background	Because of the day to day variations in women 's estrogen production ( perimenopausal and early postmenopausal women ) , false low values may also be encountered .
Background	The use of `` bone markers '' to detect and treat fast bone losers could probably lead to considerable savings in the health budget and improvement in the quality of life for women worldwide .

Background	There has been an ongoing discussion about the relationship between time spent watching television and childhood obesity .
Background	This debate has special relevance in the Latin American region were the globalization process has increased the availability of screen-based entertainment at home .
Background	The aim of this study is to examine the association between television viewing and weight status in Colombian children .
Method	This cross sectional investigation included children aged 5 to12 yrs from the National Nutrition Survey in Colombia ( ENSIN 2005 ) .
Method	Weight and height were measured in 11,137 children in order to calculate body mass index .
Method	Overweight was defined by international standards .
Method	Time spent viewing television was determined for these children through parental reports .
Method	Multiple logistic regression analyses were conducted for different subgroups and adjusted for potential confounders in order to study the association between television viewing and weight status in this population .
Result	Among the surveyed children , 41.5 % viewed television less than two hours/day ; 36.8 % between two and 3.9 hours/day and 21.7 % four or more hours/day .
Result	The prevalence of overweight ( obesity inclusive ) in this population was 11.1 % .
Result	Children who were classified as excessive television viewers ( between two and 3.9 hours/day or 4 or more hours/day ) were more likely to be overweight ( OR : 1.44 95 % CI : 1.41-1 .47 and OR : 1.32 95 % CI : 1.30-1 .34 , respectively ) than children who reported to w
Result	Stratified analyses by age , gender and urbanization levels showed similar results .
Result	Television viewing was positively associated with the presence of overweight in Colombian children .
Result	A positive association between urbanization level and television viewing was detected .
Result	Considering that the majority of Colombian children lives in densely populated cities and appear to engage in excessive television viewing these findings are of public health relevance for the prevention of childhood obesity .

Background	Using age-specific rates for multiple sclerosis ( MS ) based on a national survey , the number of `` naturally occurring '' new cases of MS among the 45 million swine flu vaccine recipients in the United States is estimated as 1,624 during the year aft
Background	Information from available reports and publications indicates no excess over the expected frequencies .
Result	Analyses of admissions for MS before , during , and after the immunization program showed no increase to the US Army hospitals or to the Mayo Clinic .
Result	Three independent controlled clinical investigations performed on patients with MS showed no increase in the frequency of exacerbations among those receiving swine flu vaccine as compared with those receiving placebo .
Result	Epidemiologic features of MS do not implicate killed virus vaccine as an etiologic factor in onset or exacerbations of the disease .
Result	There is no indication from these analyses of any association or cause-and-effect relationship between swine flu vaccine and MS.

Background	Parkinson 's disease ( PD ) is characterized by a markedly decreased number of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons .
Background	The pathogenesis of PD is still unknown ; among other etiological factors , immunological abnormalities have been suggested .
Background	Recently , interleukin-2 ( IL-2 ) has been hypothesized to be an endogenous cytokine that regulates striatal dopaminergic function .
Method	We examined the plasma concentrations of IL-1 , IL-2 , IL-6 and blood levels of ACTH , cortisol and prolactin of 21 patients with PD without any previous treatment .
Method	Age - and sex-matched subjects without any neurological or immune disorders were used as controls .
Result	Significantly higher serum concentrations of IL-2 in patients with PD were found .
Result	Treatment with antiparkinsonian drugs reduced IL-2 levels in these patients .
Result	Our results suggested a functional relationship between central dopaminergic and immune systems and a possible involvement of the latter in the pathogenesis of PD .

Background	To examine the relationship between oral contraceptive ( OC ) use and bone mineral density ( BMD ) , we conducted a cross-sectional study on 352 white , nonsmoking , perimenopausal women aged 40-54 years .
Method	We measured bone mineral density of lumbar vertebrae 2-4 with dual photon absorptiometry and mid-radius and distal radius with single photon absorptiometry .
Result	After controlling for age , body mass , current physical activity , current calcium intake and history of breastfeeding , our analysis did not find substantial differences in BMD at any site between OC ever users and never users .
Result	However , OC ever users had slightly higher lumbar BMD among premenopausal women .
Result	No significant association was identified between recency of OC use and BMD .
Result	The results of our study suggest that when other factors are accounted for , OC use is not strongly associated with BMD among perimenopausal women , although we can not exclude a slight beneficial effect.This document reports the findings of a cross-sectiona
Background	In postmenopausal women the loss of bone density and mass is well documented .
Background	This situation , if left unchecked , could lead to osteoporosis , and the financial impact on the U.S. public health system could range from $ 2 to $ 6.1 billion per year .
Method	This study controlled for the variables of age , body mass , current physical activity , current calcium intake , and history of breast feeding , all of which affect BMD .
Result	Of the 352 women in the study , 7 currently used OCs , 92 women had never used OCs , and 253 women were former OC users .
Method	These women were subdivided into 2 groups based on OC usage .
Method	These were the never users group and the ever users group .
Method	Bone mineral density was measured using dual photon absorptionmetry ( Norland Duel 2600 ) on the 2nd , 3rd , and 4th lumbar vertebrae and single photon absorptionmetry on the midradius and distal radius ( 5-mm site ) .
Method	Separate analyses were conducted for premenopausal and postmenopausal women .
Result	It was found that in the premenopausal group , with increasing OC involvement , that the BMD increased slightly but was not considered statistically significant ( P = 0.21 ) .
Result	After adjusting for the variables of age , breastfeeding , body mass , physical activity , and calcium intake , no dose-effect relationship could be found between premenopausal and postmenopausal women .
Result	Women considered recent OC users were associated with an increase in BMD , though overall this was not statistically significant .
Result	The results of this study suggest that when variables are statistically adjusted for OC use is not strongly associated with BMD in perimenopausal women.americasbiologycontraceptioncontraceptive methods -- side effectscontraceptive usagedeveloped countriesfa

Method	Retrospective analysis of augmentation ileocystoplasty for neurogenic bladder .
Background	To analyze the effects and complications of augmentation ileocystoplasty in patients with neurogenic bladder due to spinal cord injury ( SCI ) or spina bifida retrospectively .
Method	Department of Urology , Kanagawa Rehabilitation Hospital , Japan .
Method	We have treated 11 patients with neurogenic bladder due to SCI and 10 patients with spinal bifida with augmentation ileocystoplasty since 1989 .
Method	The purpose of the treatment was to stop vesicoureteral reflux ( VUR ) and/or amelioration of urinary incontinence .
Method	In 17 of 21 cases , the antireflux operation was received simultaneously .
Method	All cases performed clean intermittent self catheterization postoperatively .
Result	Urinary incontinence improved in all cases and only transient recurrence of VUR was observed in the follow-up term .
Result	Complications occurred in patients with SCI , but they could be treated conservatively .
Result	Augmentation ileocystoplasty is a good treatment option for contracted bladder or VUR , which occurs in patients with neurogenic bladder .

Background	Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) with clinical onset after 50 years old is unusual and frequently misdiagnosed .
Background	Clinical presentation and course seem also to be different that in MS occurring between 20 and 50 years old .
Method	The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical and paraclinical characteristics of late onset MS.
Method	We respectively studied MS patients older than 50 years at the onset of the disease .
Method	We evaluated demographical data , clinical symptoms , cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) , visual evoked potentials ( VEPs ) and MRI of these patients .
Method	We also studied clinical data during the follow-up with the occurrence of new symptoms and the evolution of the disease by the index of progression ( EDSS unit per year ) .
Result	In a population of 1 417 MS , 3.4 p.cent had their first symptoms at 50 years old or older and 0.45 p.cent after 59 years old .
Result	At the time of the study patients had more frequently a progressive form : 37 p.cent had a primary progressive form and 35 p.cent a secondary progressive MS.
Result	None of the patients with onset after 60 years old had relapsing remittent MS.
Result	Motor symptoms were the most common neurologic presentation ( 54 p.cent of patients ) .
Result	Very few patients had a clinical optic nerve involvement during the follow-up .
Result	The mean progression index was 1 suggesting a most severe evolution in this subgroup of MS patients .
Result	76 p.cent of patients had oligoclonal banding detected by CSF electrophoresis .
Result	The VEPs were abnormal in 81 p. cent of patients tested .
Result	71 p.cent of the brain MRI were consistent with the diagnosis of MS.
Result	60 p.cent of patients had spinal cord MRI abnormal .
Result	This study highlights the differences between the late onset MS and earlier onset .
Result	As previously reported , our study underlines the high frequency of progressive course , motor function involvement and poor prognosis .

Background	Concordance between patients ' and informants ' reports of personality disorders ( PDs ) is low , raising the questions of which source provides more valid data and whether both contribute unique information .
Method	This study compared patients ' and informants ' reports of PDs in predicting outcome in a 7 1/2 - year follow-up of 85 depressed outpatients .
Method	Patients and informants were independently evaluated using structured interviews ; outcome was assessed using structured interviews with patients .
Result	Both patients ' and informants ' reports of PD diagnoses and dimensional scores independently predicted depression symptoms and global functioning at follow-up .
Result	However , only informants ' reports made a unique contribution to predicting social adjustment .
Result	This finding indicates that both patients and informants provide unique information on Axis II psychopathology and argues for the use of both sources in the assessment of PDs .

Background	This study investigated whether reduced levels of circulating endothelial progenitors cells ( EPCs ) in chronic heart failure ( CHF ) are secondary to an exhaustion of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) in the bone marrow or to reduced mobilization .
Background	Circulating EPCs presumably originate from bone marrow-derived HSC .
Background	Persistent mobilization of EPCs was shown to be associated with favorable left ventricular infarct remodeling processes .
Method	We assessed the number and functional capacity of EPCs in 17 healthy controls , 25 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy ( ICM ) , and 20 patients with dilated cardiomyopathy ( DCM ) .
Method	To document an impairment of HSC function in the bone marrow , the colony-forming unit capacity of bone marrow-derived mononuclear cells and the number of CD34 + HSCs were examined in 6 healthy volunteers , 94 ICM patients , and 25 DCM patients .
Result	The number of EPCs was reduced in CHF , irrespective of its etiology .
Result	In contrast , the migratory capacity was selectively impaired in EPCs of ICM patients ( 4.8 + / - 4.0 migrated cells ; DCM 9.7 + / - 5.8 ; p = 0.02 ) .
Result	On multivariate analysis , ICM , advanced New York Heart Association functional class , and CHF were independent predictors of functional EPC impairment .
Result	The number of bone marrow-derived CD34 + cells did not differ between the CHF populations .
Result	However , colony-forming units ( CFUs ) were selectively reduced in ICM patients ( 54.4 + / - 24.6 ; DCM 68.1 + / - 26.9 ; p < 0.02 ) .
Result	Ischemic cardiomyopathy was the only independent predictor of impaired CFU capacity .
Result	Impaired CFU capacity was associated with reduced matrix metalloproteinase-9 activity in the bone marrow plasma .
Result	Ischemic cardiomyopathy is associated with selective impairment of progenitor cell function in the bone marrow and in the peripheral blood , which may contribute to an unfavorable left ventricular ( LV ) remodeling process .

Background	The purpose of this study was to examine pain experience among patients with chronic wounds , assess the utility of pain assessment scales for chronic wound-related pain , and determine the relation of wound-related pain to wound stage , affective distress ,
Method	In this cross-sectional study of patients with a mix of chronic wounds ( n = 69 ) recruited for a study evaluating a telemedicine system for assessing chronic wounds , 19 men ( 12 with spinal cord injury ) with wound-related pain were identified .
Method	Questionnaires included the Numerical Pain Rating Scale , McGill Pain Questionnaire , Brief Symptom Inventory , Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale , and the catastrophizing scale of the Coping Strategies Questionnaire .
Result	The McGill Pain Questionnaire was more sensitive to pain experience than a single rating of pain intensity .
Result	Wound stage was positively related to severity of pain .
Result	Pain catastrophizing was positively related to pain intensity and higher levels of affective distress and depressive symptoms .
Result	Pain associated with chronic wounds is a significant clinical challenge for both patients and health practitioners .

Background	An effectively functioning artificial bladder would be useful after cystectomy because of the ease of insertion and the availability to all patients .
Background	In this report , we describe a new design concept based on negative pressure drainage of the kidneys and active voiding , and we present the results of testing this device .
Background	Although previous prosthetic bladders have had difficulties with renal failure from hydronephrosis , infection from retention of urine , and encrustation of the luminal surface , the current artificial complete bladder system addresses these problems .

Background	If the majority of low back pain spontaneously recover in a few weeks , the main problem is to eliminate the possibility of a specific low back pain due to a serious underlying medical condition with radically different therapeutics and consequences .
Background	Medical history and physical examination will make it possible to detect these conditions ( tumor , infection , spinal fracture , spondylarthropathy ) and to specify useful complementary explorations .
Background	The second objective , for which we have few reliable clinical criteria , will consist in specifying the cause of low back problem .
Background	Lastly , it will be needed to detect the factors of risk of chronic course in order to improve the medical care which must be early .

Method	We tested the effect of age at the time of spinal cord injury ( SCI ) on locomotor recovery , in open field tests , and mechanical hyperalgesia , using paw withdrawal frequency ( PWF ) in response to noxious mechanical stimuli , in male Sprague-Dawley rats after
Method	Behavioral outcomes were measured weekly for 4 weeks in both SCI and sham groups .
Result	Following SCI , the young and adult groups recovered significantly more locomotor function , at a more rapid rate , than did the middle-age group .
Result	The PWF of the young group was significantly increased , the adult group was significantly decreased , and the middle-age group showed no significant change in fore - and hindlimbs when compared to other age groups , pre-injury and sham controls .
Result	These results support age-dependent behavioral outcomes after SCI .

Background	Infectious complications are among the most serious problems that occur in severely head-injured patients treated with mild hypothermia .
Background	The mechanism underlying the susceptibility to infection has not been clarified .
Background	Heat shock protein ( HSP ) 60 has been reported to play an essential role in innate immunity .
Method	Thus , we conducted a study to clarify the impact of mild hypothermia on the expression of HSPs in polymorphonuclear leukocytes ( PMNLs ) in severely head-injured patients .
Method	Between September 1997 and November 1999 , 17 severely head-injured patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 8 or less at admission in whom intracranial pressure could be maintained below 20 mm Hg by conventional therapy were randomly assigned to two tr
Method	The HT group was subjected to mild hypothermia ( intracranial temperature , 34 degrees C ) for 48 hours followed by rewarming at a rate of 1 degrees C per day for 3 days , whereas the NT group was subjected to normothermia ( intracranial temperature , 37 degree
Method	Blood samples were serially obtained at three time points ; days 0 to 1 , days 2 to 5 , and days 6 to 14 after head injury .
Method	We measured the expression of HSP27 , HSP60 , HSP70 , and HSP90 by flow cytometry .
Result	The two groups were similar with respect to prognostic factors , and there was no difference in clinical outcome .
Result	The expression of PMNL HSP60 in the HT group was significantly lower in all three time periods compared with that in the NT group ( p < 0.05 ) , whereas expression of the other HSPs did not differ significantly between the groups .
Result	The incidence of infectious complications was significantly increased in the HT group over that in the NT group ( p < 0.05 ) .
Result	In in vitro studies , PMNLs from 10 healthy volunteers were incubated at 37 degrees C , 34 degrees C , or 26 degrees C for 1 hour with sodium arsenite ( 100 micromol/L ) , an HSP inducer .
Result	The expression of HSP60 at 26 degrees C and 34 degrees C was significantly lower than that at 37 degrees C ( p < 0.05 ) , whereas expression of the other HSPs did not differ significantly at 26 degrees C , 34 degrees C , or 37 degrees C.
Result	Mild hypothermia reduces the expression of HSP60 in PMNLs from severely head-injured patients .
Result	Thus , mild hypothermia may suppress innate immunity .

Background	To compare the safety and efficacy of the Surodex dexamethasone anterior segment drug delivery system ( Oculex Pharmaceuticals , Inc. ) and dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops ( Maxidex ) in patients with inflammation after cataract surgery .
Method	Cataract Service , Department of Ophthalmology , Lothian University Hospitals , Edinburgh , United Kingdom .
Method	This comparative single-masked parallel-group study comprised 1 eye of 19 patients having phacoemulsification cataract extraction and posterior chamber intraocular lens implantation .
Method	The Surodex group had the dexamethasone drug delivery system inserted into the anterior chamber ( AC ) angle during surgery and was treated with saline eyedrops ( Isopto Plain ) for 4 weeks .
Method	The control group had no drug delivery system or a placebo inserted at surgery and were treated with dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops for 4 weeks .
Method	A Kowa FM-500 laser flare meter was used to objectively measure AC flare , the main outcome measure .
Method	Slitlamp biomicroscopy to grade AC flare and cells , intraocular pressure measurement , and corneal endothelial specular microscopy , performed up to 60 days after surgery , were the secondary outcome measures .
Method	The Surodex group had safety follow-ups after completion of the initial study period .
Result	Both groups had a steady increase in laser flare meter readings postoperatively .
Result	The readings peaked at 3 days in the control group and at 7 days in the Surodex group .
Result	This was followed by a gradual decline toward baseline values up to 28 days , after which the values remained at a similar level to 60 days in both groups .
Result	There were no significant differences in flare meter readings between the groups throughout the study .
Result	There were also no significant between-group differences in subjective assessment of intraocular inflammation and in impact on corneal endothelial cell count ( P = .67 ) .
Result	Surodex remnants persisted up to a mean of 22.0 months + / - 2.5 ( SD ) postoperatively in 6 eyes ( 54 % ) .
Result	Neither group had a severe adverse event .
Result	Surodex appeared to be as effective as dexamethasone 0.1 % eyedrops in controlling intraocular inflammation after cataract surgery by phacoemulsification , and both methods had a similar safety profile .

Background	To compare the pressor response to static exercise in subjects with cervical spinal cord injury ( SCI ) at the C6 to C8 level with that in able-bodied control subjects .
Background	In these SCI subjects , the descending supraspinal sympathetic neurons and afferent pathways from the contracting muscles to peripheral vessels via the medullary cardiovascular center are damaged .
Method	Mean arterial blood pressure , heart rate , and plasma concentrations of norepinephrine , epinephrine , renin activity , vasopressin , aldosterone , and human atrial natriuretic peptide were measured during a 2-minute period of sustained contraction of elbow fle
Result	74.7 + / -2.2 mm Hg ; static exercise , 81.9 + / -4.1 mm Hg ) and control subjects ( pre-exercise , 101.0 + / -4.2 mm Hg ; static exercise , 117.0 + / -4
Result	In SCI subjects , there was no change in heart rate during exercise , whereas in control subjects heart rate increased during exercise ( p < .05 ) ( pre-exercise , 8.7 + / -3.8 beats/min : static exercise , 76.0 + / -3.1 beats/min ) .
Result	There were no significant changes in the hormone levels in the SCI subjects throughout the experiment .
Result	The significant increase in mean blood pressure observed in the present study indicates the presence of peripheral control from muscle receptors and evoked pressor response during static exercise in SCI subjects .

Background	Recent studies have suggested that serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRI 's ) , prescribed for the relief of depression , can cause sexual dysfunction in up to fifty percent of those taking them .
Background	The SSRI 's -- including fluoxetine ( Prozac ) , sertraline ( Zoloft ) , and paroxetine ( Paxil ) -- affect mood stabilization by promoting the transmission of the neurotransmitter serotonin , although enhancing serotonergic function can decrease libido or lead to erec
Background	As an alternative to lowering antidepressant dosages and risking losing therapeutic gains , administering serotonin-blockers , such as cyproheptadine ( Periactin ) and yohimbine ( Yocon ) , has been shown to restore sexual function .
Background	However , the serotonin antagonist , cyproheptadine , causes sedation and can reverse the antidepressant or anti-obsessive effect of the SSRI .
Background	Yohimbine enhances transmission of the neurotransmitter epinephrine , increasing the flow of blood to erectile tissue and stimulating sexual desire by activating the cerebral cortex .
Background	Its drawbacks are increased levels of panic attacks and higher required dosages .
Background	Other potential biochemical stratagems are : amantadine ( Symmetrel ) , bromcriptine ( Parlodel ) , and buspirone ( Buspar ) , which enhance dopamine and serotonin transmission ; and bethanecol ( Urechline ) , which enhances choline transmission .
Background	One study indicates improved sexual response when the nonserotonergic , mildly dopamine-enhancing buproprion ( Welbutrin ) is substituted for fluoxetine .

Method	We compared the plasma lipoprotein cholesterol , triglyceride , apolipoprotein ( apo ) A-I , apoB , and lipoprotein ( a ) [ Lp ( a ) ] concentrations in a low coronary heart disease ( CHD ) risk population ( n = 440 ) in Taipei with a high CHD risk population ( n = 428 ) in
Result	Taipei men had significantly lower low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) ( -20 mg/dL , -14 % , P < .01 ) and apoB ( -7 mg/dL , -6 % , P < .05 ) levels and significantly higher high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) levels ( 6 mg/dL , 13 % , P < .01
Result	Taipei women had significantly lower LDL-C ( -18 mg/dL , -15 % , P < .01 ) and higher HDL-C ( 4 mg/dL , 7 % , P < .01 ) levels than Framingham women .
Result	Median concentrations and distributions of Lp ( a ) by sex were similar in Taipei and Framingham .
Result	After adjusting for body mass index and smoking status , only differences in total cholesterol and LDL-C levels remained significantly different for both sexes between the two populations ( P < .01 ) .
Result	Gender differences for lipids within populations were similar .
Result	After adjusting for age , body mass index , and smoking status , women in both Taipei and Framingham had significantly lower mean triglyceride , LDL-C , and apoB levels and significantly higher HDL-C and apoA-I levels than men .
Result	Postmenopausal women in Taipei had significantly higher mean total cholesterol , LDL-C , HDL-C , apoA-I , apoB , and Lp ( a ) levels than premenopausal women ( P < .05 ) , whereas in Framingham postmenopausal women had significantly higher total cholesterol , trig
Result	Our data are consistent with the concept that plasma lipoprotein cholesterol levels ( especially LDL-C ) but not apolipoprotein values explain some of the twofold difference in age-adjusted CHD mortality between these two populations .

Background	Clinical and experimental evidence has supported a benefit for the inclusion of fish oils ( a primary source of omega-3 fatty acids ) as a component of a normal healthy diet .
Background	Polyunsaturated omega-3 fatty acids have been demonstrated to be of benefit in a number of inflammation-associated disease states , including atherosclerosis , autoimmune disorders , malignancy , and sepsis .
Background	The beneficial effects of omega-3 fatty acids are thought to occur through the postulated antiinflammatory actions of omega-3 fats ; however , the specific mechanism ( s ) of action has not been completely defined .
Background	In this review , we discuss the recent progress made in our laboratory on defining the mechanisms of omega-3 fatty acids activity .

Method	Eight patients with a homogeneous syndrome of progressive symmetric spinobulbar spasticity were studied .
Method	Clinical features were limited to those associated with dysfunction of the descending motor tracts and included spastic quadriparesis , pseudobulbar affect , spastic dysarthria , hyper-reflexia and bilateral Babinski signs .
Result	Lower motor neuron findings were absent and higher cognitive function preserved .
Result	Median age of onset was 50.5 yrs and median disease duration was 19 yrs .
Result	Neuropathologic features ( including morphometric analysis ) in the single autopsied case confirmed the selective involvement of the motor cortex .
Result	There was complete absence of Betz cells from layer 5 of the precentral cortex and the remaining pyramidal cells were significantly smaller than those seen in normal controls .
Result	Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) revealed atrophy of the precentral gyrus and positron emission tomography ( PET ) scans showed diminished glucose [ 18F ] fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the pericentral cortex .
Result	Magnetic motor cortex stimulation revealed markedly prolonged central motor conduction times .

Background	Percutaneous radiofrequency neurotomy has been used in the treatment of pain from the cervical zygapophysial joints , but the results have been modest and not compelling .
Background	Several factors might account for its apparent poor success rate , including inadequate patient selection , inaccurate surgical anatomy , and technical errors .
Background	In an effort to overcome these confounders , we used comparative local anesthetic blocks to preoperatively , definitively diagnose cervical zygapophysial joint pain and developed an amended operative technique based on formal anatomical studies .
Method	An audit was conducted of our experience with 19 patients to determine whether there was sufficient merit in the amended procedure to justify a randomized , double-blind , controlled trial .
Method	The duration of complete pain relief was the principal outcome measure .
Method	Side effects and complications were also monitored .
Result	Of the 10 patients who underwent third occipital neurotomy for the treatment of C2-C3 zygapophysial joint pain , only 4 obtained long-lasting relief .
Result	The other six patients reported an early return of their pain and constituted technical failures ; the third occipital nerve was inadequately coagulated and recovered in the immediate postoperative period .
Result	Of the 10 patients who underwent lower cervical medial branch neurotomy , 7 obtained complete pain relief for clinically useful periods and were able to resume their activities of daily living and employment .
Result	After procedures at all levels , a brief period of postoperative pain was experienced by the patients and ataxia was a side effect of third occipital neurotomy .
Result	There were no cases of postoperative infection or anesthesia dolorosa .
Result	( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS )

Background	We have used serial visual analogue scores to demonstrate disturbances of the appetite profile in dialysis patients .
Background	This is potentially important as dialysis patients are prone to malnutrition yet have a lower nutrient intake than controls .
Background	Appetite disturbance may be influenced by accumulation of appetite inhibitors such as leptin and cholecystokinin ( CCK ) in dialysis patients .
Method	Fasting blood samples were drawn from 43 controls , 50 haemodialysis ( HD ) and 39 peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) patients to measure leptin and CCK .
Method	Hunger and fullness scores were derived from profiles compiled using hourly visual analogue scores .
Method	Nutrient intake was derived from 3 day dietary records .
Result	Fasting CCK was elevated for PD ( 6.73 + / - 4.42 ng/l vs control 4.99 + / - 2.23 ng/l , P < 0.05 ; vs HD 4.43 + / - 2.15 ng/l , P < 0.01 ) .
Result	Fasting CCK correlated with the variability of the hunger ( r = 0.426 , P = 0.01 ) and fullness ( r = 0.52 , P = 0.002 ) scores for PD .
Result	There was a notable relationship with the increase in fullness after lunch for PD ( r = 0.455 , P = 0.006 ) .
Result	When well nourished PD patients were compared with their malnourished counterparts , CCK was higher in the malnourished group ( P = 0.004 ) .
Result	Leptin levels were higher for the dialysis patients than controls ( HD and PD , P < 0.001 ) with pronounced hyperleptinaemia evident in some PD patients .
Result	Control leptin levels demonstrated correlation with fullness scores ( e.g. peak fullness , r = 0.45 , P = 0.007 ) but the dialysis patients did not .
Result	PD nutrient intake ( energy and protein intake , r = -0.56 , P < 0.0001 ) demonstrated significant negative correlation with leptin .
Result	Increased CCK levels appear to influence fullness and hunger perception in PD patients and thus may contribute to malnutrition .
Result	Leptin does not appear to affect perceived appetite in dialysis patients but it may influence nutrient intake in PD patients via central feeding centres .

Background	We wanted to evaluate the urodynamic changes of radical retropubic prostatectomy in patients with localized prostate cancer and identify specific factors that could influence the postoperative continence status .
Method	Sixty-six consecutive patients ( mean age 68 years ) were studied urodynamically within 1 week before surgery , and 44 of them at a mean 7.6 months after radical intervention .
Result	1 % ) after 6 months and in 43/44 patients ( 97.7 % ) 1 year after surgery .
Result	Stress incontinence of varying degree improved with time .
Result	Seven patients demonstrated a moderate incontinence 4 months after radical prostatectomy and 1/7 was still incontinent after 1 year .
Result	Mean flow rate , maximum detrusor pressure , maximum urethral closure pressure ( at rest and voluntary contraction of the sphincter ) and functional urethral length showed significant changes after surgery .
Result	Detrusor instability , which was present in 31.8 % of the 66 patients preoperatively , was not responsible for any case of postoperative incontinence .
Result	The urethral pressure profile was significantly reduced in all patients after surgery .
Result	The present study indicates that there are no preoperative alterations in bladder function such as detrusor instability to identify patients at risk for postoperative incontinence .
Result	Postoperative incontinence seems to depend upon sphincteric deficiency as expressed by the reduced pressures in the sphincteric mechanism .

Background	Few data exist about clinical , radiologic findings , clinical outcome , and its predictors in patients with spontaneous vertebral artery dissection ( sVAD ) .
Method	Clinical characteristics , imaging findings , 3-month outcomes , and its predictors were investigated in consecutive patients with sVAD .
Method	One hundred sixty-nine patients with 195 sVAD were identified .
Result	Brain ischemia occurred in 131 patients ( 77 % ; ischemic stroke , n = 114 , 67 % ; transient ischemic attack , n = 17 , 10 % ) .
Result	Three patients with ischemic stroke showed also signs of subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) ; 3 ( 2 % ) had SAH without ischemia .
Result	The 134 patients with brain ischemia or SAH had head and/or neck pain in 118 ( 88 % ) and pulsatile tinnitus in seven ( 5 % ) patients .
Result	The remaining 35 patients ( 21 % ) had isolated head and/or neck pain in 21 ( 12 % ) cases , asymptomatic sVAD in 13 ( 8 % ) , and cervical radiculopathy in one case ( 1 % ) .
Result	Location of sVAD was more often in the pars transversaria ( V2 ; 35 % ) or atlas loop ( V3 ; 34 % ) than in the prevertebral ( V1 ; 20 % ) or intracranial ( V4 ; 11 % ) segment ( P = 0.0001 ) .
Result	Outcome was favorable ( modified Rankin scale score 0 or 1 ) in 88 ( 82 % ) of 107 ischemic stroke patients with follow up .
Result	Two ( 2 % ) patients died .
Result	Low baseline National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score ( P < 0.0001 ) and younger age ( P = 0.007 ) were independent predictors of favorable outcome .
Result	sVAD is predominantly located in the pars transversaria ( V2 ) or the atlas loop ( V3 ) .
Result	Most patients show posterior circulation ischemia .
Result	Favorable outcome is observed in most ischemic strokes and independently predicted by low National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score and younger age .

Background	To evaluate the impact of the revised diagnostic criteria for diabetes mellitus adopted by the American Diabetes Association on prevalence of diabetes and on classification of patients .
Background	For epidemiological purposes the American criteria use a fasting plasma glucose concentration > = 7.0 mmol/l in contrast with the current World Health Organisation criteria of 2 hour glucose concentration > = 11.1 mmol/l .
Method	Data were collected from 13 populations and three occupational based studies from eight European countries .
Method	All studies used a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test to measure fasting and 2 hour glucose concentrations .
Method	17 881 men ; 8309 women ; age range 17-92 years .
Method	Classification of diabetes according to both sets of criteria .
Result	The application of the American criteria on European populations induced changes in prevalence of diabetes ranging from a reduction of 4.0 % to an increase of 13.2 % .
Result	A total of 1517 previously undiagnosed individuals had diabetes according to either the WHO or the American criteria .
Result	Among 1044 with diabetes according to American criteria , only 45 % had 2 hour values fulfilling the WHO criteria .
Result	The risk of disagreement of classification decreased with increasing body mass index ( P < 0.00001 ) and increasing age ( P < 0.0001 ) ; the impact of sex was not significant ( P = 0.08 ) .
Result	This shift in strategy from using 2 hour to fasting plasma glucose will cause an increase in the prevalence of diabetes in some European populations .
Result	A high degree of disagreement in the classification was observed between the two recommendations .
Result	Prospective data are needed to evaluate whether the WHO or the American criteria best identify individuals at risk of developing microvascular complications and cardiovascular disease .
Result	Wider implementation of revised diagnostic criteria should await prospective data .

Background	Patients with increased cholesterol levels are at increased risk to experience cardiovascular events and to die from vascular disease .
Background	Statins have been proven to effectively reduce cholesterol levels and subsequently reduce cardiovascular events in patients with coronary artery disease or at increased risk to develop coronary artery disease .
Background	However , in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) , not high , but low levels of cholesterol are related to increased mortality .
Background	This phenomenon of reverse epidemiology is not unique to CHF , but also exists in other critical diseases and in the elderly in general as well .
Background	An important rationale has been provided by the endotoxin hypothesis , which suggests that cholesterol has an important scavenger function regarding harmful endotoxins .
Background	Indeed , these lines of evidence predict a harmful effect of statin treatment in patients with CHF .
Background	However , statins not only lower cholesterol , but also have been reported to exhibit a plethora of pleiotropic effects , including reduction of inflammation and improvement of endothelial function .
Background	In order to reconcile these contradictory lines of evidence , it is necessary to examine the pharmacological mechanisms of effects of statin treatment .
Background	Understanding the pharmacology of statin intervention in CHF models and patients may facilitate the development of therapeutic strategies .
Background	In this review , we provide an overview of the known associations between serum cholesterol and CHF in human subjects .
Background	In addition , we review the available lines of evidence in animal models and humans predicting both harmful and beneficial effects of statin treatment in CHF .
Background	We emphasize the importance of additional research specifically in CHF models and patients .

Background	Effective treatment of chronic pain with morphine is limited by decreases in the drug 's analgesic action with chronic administration ( antinociceptive tolerance ) .
Method	Because opioids are mainstays of pain management , restoring their efficacy has great clinical importance .
Background	We have recently reported that formation of peroxynitrite ( ONOO ( - ) , PN ) in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord plays a critical role in the development of morphine antinociceptive tolerance and have further documented that nitration and enzymatic inactivat
Result	We now report for the first time that antinociceptive tolerance in mice is also associated with the inactivation of MnSOD at supraspinal sites .
Result	Inactivation of MnSOD led to nitroxidative stress as evidenced by increased levels of products of oxidative DNA damage and activation of the nuclear factor poly ( ADP-ribose ) polymerase in whole brain homogenates .
Result	Co-administration of morphine with potent Mn porphyrin-based peroxynitrite scavengers , Mn ( III ) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis ( N-ethylpyridinium-2-yl ) porphyrin ( MnTE-2-PyP ( 5 + ) ) and Mn ( III ) 5,10,15,20-tetrakis ( N-n-hexylpyridinium-2-yl ) porphyrin ( MnTnHex-2-PyP ( 5 + ) ) ( 1 )
Result	The more lipophilic analogue , MnTnHex-2-PyP ( 5 + ) was able to cross the blood-brain barrier at higher levels than its lipophylic counterpart MnTE-2-PyP ( 5 + ) and was about 30-fold more efficacious .
Result	Collectively , these data suggest that PN-mediated enzymatic inactivation of supraspinal MnSOD provides a source of nitroxidative stress , which in turn contributes to central sensitization associated with the development of morphine antinociceptive toleran
Result	These results support our general contention that PN-targeted therapeutics may have potential as adjuncts to opiates in pain management .

Background	To investigate the risks of chromosome mutation after ART for couples with comparable genetic backgrounds .
Method	Prospective clinical observational study .
Method	In vitro fertilization center at a tertiary-care , university-affiliated teaching hospital .
Method	Ninety-seven male children whose fathers have normal spermatogenesis were recruited , including 19 babies conceived through IVF , 18 babies conceived through intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) , and 60 naturally conceived babies , as well as the babies '
Method	Collection of peripheral and umbilical cord blood samples .
Method	The Yq genetic status of the babies and fathers according to 13 Y-specific markers covering four azoospermia factor ( AZF ) subregions , the karyotype , and the neonatal examination .
Result	We found that all children had a normal 46 , XY karyotype , but de novo Y-chromosome microdeletions were identified in 1 ( 5.3 % ) of 19 IVF offspring and in 3 ( 16.7 % ) of 18 ICSI offspring .
Result	The incidence of de novo Y-chromosome microdeletion in male children conceived through ICSI or IVF was statistically significantly higher than that in those conceived naturally ( 10.8 % vs. 0 ) .
Result	In four babies with microdeletion , one was complicated , with hypospadias .
Result	Our results , for the first time , indicate that risks of gene mutation may increase in the ART offspring , even though their fathers have normal spermatogenesis and genetic background .
Result	Hence , intense attention should be placed on genetic safety in the ART children , and the benefits and risks of adopting ART should be balanced gingerly .

Background	To report preliminary efficacy data from a Web-based family problem-solving intervention to improve parent and child adaptation .
Method	Eight parents and six children with moderate to severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) who were injured more than 15 months earlier ( M = 16 months ) participated in the intervention .
Method	Families were given computers , Web cameras , and high-speed Internet access .
Method	Weekly videoconferences with the therapist were conducted after they completed self-guided Web exercises on problem-solving , communication , and antecedent behavior management strategies .
Result	Paired t tests comparing pre - and post-intervention scores revealed significant improvements in injury-related burden , parental psychiatric symptoms , depression , and parenting stress .
Result	There were also significant reductions in antisocial behaviors in the injured child , but not in self-reported depressive symptoms .
Result	These findings suggest that a computer-based intervention may successfully be used to improve both parent and child outcomes following TBI in children .

Background	A distinct clinical syndrome of severe buttock pain radiating down the posterior surface of the ipsilateral leg and subsequent inability to ambulate has recently been recognized .
Background	The syndrome may develop in the parturient following a paracervical block .
Method	This study analyzes 4 cases from the authors ' institution and reviews 2 cases from the literature .
Result	Onset of the syndrome ranges from 12 hours to 10 days but progressive improvement and complete recovery are the rule .
Result	The cause is believed to be secondary to direct trauma or hematoma formation in the area of the sacral plexus .
Result	Pelvic induration or a mass in the sacroiliac area may be noted bur abscess formation is not associated .
Result	Prevention is difficult but early recognition will facilitate treatment , which is mostly symptomatic .

Background	A variety of central nervous system injuries , diseases , and developmental deficits can lead to motor disorders that present complex mixtures of symptoms .
Background	Those that have a fundamental similarity characterized by the appearance of exaggerated velocity-dependent resistance to the lengthening of skeletal muscles are called spasticity .
Background	Reports based on clinical observations of motor disorders have and continue to provide the essential database of information regarding the range and distribution of unifying and discordant features of spasticity .
Method	Laboratory investigations employing animal models of motor disorders following experimental lesions of the central nervous system have reproduced some of the neurophysiologic changes that accompany injury of the central nervous system in humans .
Result	Those experimental lesions produced by spinal cord contusion/compression reproduce many of the histopathologic features displayed in traumatic injury of the human spinal cord as well .
Result	Studies using this model have revealed not only changes in reflex threshold and amplitude but also alterations in fundamental rate-modulation processes that regulate reflex excitability during repetitive stimulation .
Result	This report characterizes insights obtained from a laboratory investigation in search of fundamental mechanisms that contribute to the development of spasticity and provides a vantage point for understanding therapeutic strategies for treatment of spastic

Background	To study the changes of haemostatic risk factors for coronary heart disease during a weight reduction programme in obese children and adolescents .
Method	A short-term longitudinal study .
Method	Thirty-seven obese white girls ( age , 12 + / -1.8 y ; body mass index ( BMI ) , 26.9 + / -5.25 ) and 19 obese white boys ( age , 11.9 + / -1.7 y ; BMI , 26.2 + / -5.2 ) .
Method	Fibrinogen , factor VII coagulant activity , von Willebrand factor antigen , and soluble P-selectin were determined before and after a 3 week programme including energy restriction and physical activities .
Result	All determined haemostatic risk factors decreased significantly during the programme .
Result	Changes in risk factors were correlated to changes in body composition .
Result	Children and adolescents with the highest initial concentrations showed the greatest decreases .
Result	Energy restriction combined with physical activity improves the haemostatic risk profile in obese children and adolescents .

Background	Choosing optimal health insurance coverage involves a trade-off between the gain from risk reduction and the deadweight loss from moral hazard .
Background	This paper examines this trade-off empirically by estimating both the demand for health insurance and the demand for health services .
Background	It relies on data from a randomized controlled trial of cost-sharing 's effects on the use of health services and on the health status for a general , non-elderly population .

Background	Public health officials and the communities they serve need to : identify priority health problems ; formulate effective health policies ; respond to public health emergencies ; select , implement , and evaluate cost-effective interventions to prevent and contr
Background	Despite agreement that rational , data-based decisions will lead to improved health outcomes , many public health decisions appear to be made intuitively or politically .
Background	During 1991-1996 , the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention implemented the US Agency for International Development funded Data for Decision-Making ( DDM ) Project .
Background	DDM goals were to : ( a ) strengthen the capacity of decision makers to identify data needs for solving problems and to interpret and use data appropriately for public health decisions ; ( b ) enhance the capacity of technical advisors to provide valid , essenti
Background	Assessments were conducted to identify important health problems , problem-driven implementation plans with data-based solutions as objectives were developed , interdisciplinary , in-service training programs for mid-level policy makers , program managers , an
Method	This strategy was tested in Bolivia , Cameroon , Mexico , and the Philippines , where decentralization of health services led to a need to strengthen the capacity of policy makers and health officers at sub-national levels to use information more effectively .
Result	Results showed that the DDM strategy improved evidence-based public health .
Result	Subsequently , DDM concepts and practices have been institutionalized in participating countries and at CDC .

Background	Knee osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a progressive disease that initially affects the articular cartilage .
Background	Observational studies have shown benefits for arthroscopic debridement ( AD ) on the osteoarthritic knee , but other recent studies have yielded conflicting results that suggest AD may not be effective .
Method	To identify the effectiveness of AD in knee OA on pain and function .
Method	We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) ( The Cochrane Library Issue 2 , 2006 ) ; MEDLINE ( 1966 to August , 2006 ) ; CINAHL ( 1982 to 2006 ) ; EMBASE ( 1988 to 2006 ) and Web of Science ( 1900 to 2006 ) and screened the bibliographies , reference lists and cited web sites of papers .
Method	We included randomised controlled trials ( RCT ) or controlled clinical trials ( CCT ) assessing effectiveness of AD compared to another surgical procedure , including sham or placebo surgery and other non-surgical interventions , in patients with a diagnosis o
Method	The main outcomes were pain relief and improved function of the knee .
Method	Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion , assessed trial quality and extracted the data .
Method	Results are presented using weighted mean difference ( WMD ) for continuous data and relative risk ( RR ) for dichotomous data , and the number needed to treat to benefit ( NNTB ) or harm ( NNTH ) .
Result	Three RCTs were included with a total of 271 patients .
Result	They had different comparison groups and a moderate risk of bias .
Result	One study compared AD with lavage and with sham surgery .
Result	Compared to lavage the study found no significant difference .
Result	Compared to sham surgery placebo , the study found worse outcomes for AD at two weeks ( WMD for pain 8.7 , 95 % CI 1.7 to 15.8 , and function 7.7 , 95 % CI 1.1 to 14.3 ; NNTH = 5 ) and no significant difference at two years .
Result	The second trial , at higher risk of bias , compared AD and arthroscopic washout , and found that AD significantly reduced knee pain compared to washout at five years ( RR 5.5 , 95 % CI 1.7 to 15.5 ; NNTB = 3 ) .
Result	The third trial , also at higher risk of bias , compared AD to closed-needle lavage , and found no significant difference .
Result	There is ` gold ' level evidence that AD has no benefit for undiscriminated OA ( mechanical or inflammatory causes ) .

Background	This article concerns traction lesions of the brachial plexus in adults , focusing on management and recovery .
Background	Open wounds of the plexus are now treated surgically as soon as possible .
Background	The subsequent rehabilitation is the same as that for closed traction lesions of the brachial plexus in which significant recovery is expected .

Background	258 patients with ovarian carcinomas who underwent surgery at the University Women 's Hospital Charlottenburg/Berlin ( during 1980-1987 ) and at the I.
Background	University Women 's Hospital Munich ( during 1987-1990 ) were re-examined for the occurrence of a simultaneous primary secondary carcinoma in the upper genital tract .
Method	The diagnoses were made according to strict histological criteria .
Result	In 13 cases ( 5 % ) simultaneous carcinomas of the upper genital tract were found .
Result	In this group we would like to especially mention 6 of the 33 patients ( 18.2 % ) with an endometroid ovarian carcinoma , 3 of the 47 patients ( 6.4 % ) with an ovarian tumor of low malignant potential and 1 of the 12 patients with a serous-papillary carcinoma o
Result	In our opinion these carcinomas are independent multifocal primaries originating from the primary and secondary Mullerian epithelium .
Result	Staging protocols of these simultaneous tumors , especially prognostic estimation and development of therapeutic strategies should consider this possible multifocal pathogenesis .

Background	With the growth in enrollment of Medicare patients in HMOs the effectiveness of care received by Medicare/HMO patients continues to be of concern .
Background	By considering the relationship of insurance to stage at diagnosis , this study inquires whether HMOs emphasize early diagnosis of colorectal cancer to a greater extent than FFS plans , if particular HMO types ( group/nongroup models ) are more successful in
Method	Data for 1329 Medicare patients with colorectal cancer , diagnosed 1987 to 1993 , and residing in northern California , were acquired from a population-based cancer registry .
Method	Insurance included two types of Medicare HMOs ( group and nongroup model ) and three fee-for-service ( FFS ) categories Medicare with private supplement , Medicare/Medicaid , and Medicare only .
Method	The relationships of insurance to AJCC stage at diagnosis and of insurance to survival following diagnosis were examined , respectively , with logistic regression models and survival analysis ( controlling for age , ethnicity , tumor location , educational level , sex , and hospital type ) .
Result	Likelihood of early stage colorectal cancer was greater for Medicare patients in nongroup model HMOs or having private FFS supplements than for those in group model HMOs , Medicare/Medicaid , or Medicare alone .
Result	All-cause and colorectal cancer mortality did not differ significantly among Medicare patients with group model HMO , nongroup model HMO and private FFS supplements .
Result	Medicare/Medicaid patients experienced significantly greater all-cause mortality than private FFS patients .
Result	Differences within this study population in early stage diagnosis of colorectal cancer and breast cancer , respectively , by type of Medicare supplemental insurance may be attributable to which preventive screening measures are included in health plan repor

Background	Antenatal betamethasone is routinely used for the prevention of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome in preterm infants .
Background	However , little is known of the long term effects of exposure to antenatal betamethasone on lung function in adulthood .
Method	Five hundred and thirty four 30 year olds whose mothers had participated in the first and largest randomised controlled trial of antenatal betamethasone were followed .
Method	Lung function was assessed by portable spirometric testing .
Method	The prevalence of asthma symptoms was assessed using the European Community Respiratory Health Survey questionnaire .
Result	Fifty ( 20 % ) betamethasone exposed and 53 ( 19 % ) placebo exposed participants met the criteria for current asthma ( relative risk 0.98 ( 95 % CI 0.74 to 1.30 ) , p = 0.89 ) .
Result	181 betamethasone exposed and 202 placebo exposed participants had acceptable spirometric data .
Result	There were no differences in lung function between betamethasone and placebo exposed groups ( mean ( SD ) forced vital capacity in the betamethasone and placebo groups 105.9 ( 12.0 ) v 106.6 ( 12.6 ) % predicted , difference = -0.7 ( 95 % CI -3.2 to 1.8 ) , p = 0.59 ;
Result	Antenatal exposure to a single course of betamethasone does not alter lung function or the prevalence of wheeze and asthma at age 30 .

Method	This case history describes the treatment of a patient suffering with persistent pain .
Method	He was treated surgically with implantation of a spinal cord stimulator .
Method	After surgery , a partial paralysis that could not be explained medically and that was probably related to emotional factors occurred , and cognitive behavioral treatment was begun .
Result	This paper discusses the importance of considering social and psychological factors when medical treatment options are considered .

Background	Gonal-F ( Serono , Aubonne , Switzerland ) is a recombinant human follicle stimulating hormone ( FSH ) synthesized in vitro by cells into which genes encoding for FSH subunits have been inserted .
Background	This preparation exhibits physiochemical , immunological , and pharmacological properties that bear great similarity to those of native human FSH .
Background	It has a high specific activity and can be administered subcutaneously .
Background	To compare the efficacy and safety of Gonal-F with those of urinary human FSH ( Metrodin ; Serono ) in achieving superovulation for IVF purposes in a prospective , randomized study .
Method	Twenty infertile patients ( normo-ovulatory healthy women ) were recruited for the study and allocated at random to the Gonal-F or Metrodin groups .
Method	The treatment protocol consisted of pituitary down regulation by GnRH analog ( Buserelin ; Hoechst , Frankfurt , Germany ) employing the `` long '' protocol initiated at the mid-luteal phase ( 900 micrograms/day , intranasal administration ) .
Method	Gonal-F ( SC ) or Metrodin ( IM ) was injected daily ( 225 IU/day ) starting on cycle day 3 .
Method	Dose adjustment was performed , when necessary , from cycle day 7 .
Result	Of the 20 cycles analyzed , none was canceled due to poor response .
Result	No cases of adverse effects ( including local intolerance ) or ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome were recorded in either group .
Result	They did not differ significantly in the following treatment-dependent variables : hormone profile , duration of FSH treatment , total FSH dose required to achieve follicular maturation , and the number of oocytes retrieved , fertilized , and replaced .
Result	These preliminary data concur with previous studies in demonstrating that Gonal-F is as effective and safe as Metrodin ( when given in combination with a `` long '' protocol of GnRH analog ) in inducing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF purp
Result	Its mode of administration ( SC instead of IM ) offers an additional advantage over the urinary human FSH .

Background	Individuals with traumatic spinal cord injury ( SCI ) represent a population with extreme inactivity .
Background	The purpose of the current research was to investigate the metabolic differences between extremely inactive disabled individuals ( SCI sedentary group ) , active disabled individuals ( SCI athletes ) , and able-bodied individuals .
Method	Fasting morning blood samples were obtained for the determination of high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDLc ) subfractions , glucose , and insulin .
Method	The sedentary SCI group was comprised of 77 consecutive male admissions to a rehabilitation center .
Method	The 17 SCI athletes were recruited prior to competition at the annual National Wheelchair Games .
Result	Total HDLc and both its subfractions were significantly lower ( P less than 0.01 ) in the male SCI sedentary population than in the SCI athletes or able-bodied controls .
Result	HDL2 was significantly elevated ( P less than 0.01 ) in the SCI athlete compared to the SCI sedentary group ( 42.7 vs 34.1 mg X dl-1 ) and was similar to the control population ( 46.1 mg X dl-1 ) .
Result	Glucose levels were similar in the two SCI groups but were both significantly lower ( P less than 0.05 ) than in the able-bodied controls .
Result	These data suggest that the extreme inactivity observed in disabled populations is associated with lower HDLc concentrations and presumably an increase in coronary heart disease risk if these values were to persist over time .
Result	Additionally , it appears that physical activity is associated with increases in total HDLc , primarily through the HDL2 subfraction .
Result	Glucose and insulin were similar for both SCI groups despite the marked difference in activity levels , suggesting that these parameters may not be associated with activity .

Background	Obesity or leanness of an individual tends to continue from childhood to adult ages .
Background	It is therefore desirable to establish a single standard for obesity/leanness that is applicable throughout these stages of life .
Background	Trials were made in the present study to examine if ` the Japanese weight and height standards for estimating over - and under-weight ' ( established for adults by the Ministry of Health and Welfare of the Government of Japan ) is applicable also to younger pe
Background	The standard is developed with two assumptions that both height and logarithm of weight distribute normally .
Method	The height and weight of about 83,000 6th-grade children in primary schools ( 12 years of age ; with boys and girls of an equal number ) , and about 78,000 3rd-year-children in junior high schools ( 15 years of age ) were available .
Result	The analyses of the data disclosed that , whereas height distributes normally , their weight does not fit with normal distribution when converted logarithmically or even when the conversion is made after subtraction of a constant value from the weight .
Result	The distribution pattern of weight of children was however essentially the same , independent of height .
Result	Thus , it was possible to classify the children into five categories of definitely obese ( 10 % ) , tending toward obesity ( 15 % ) , normal ( 50 % ) , slim ( 15 % ) and thin ( 10 % ) groups with the same statistical parameters , regardless of their height excluding extremel

Background	To compare the effect of exercise regimes with focus on either motor control training or endurance/strength training for patients with whiplash-associated disorders in subacute phase .
Method	Randomized controlled trial .
Method	An outpatient spine clinic in Norway .
Method	Twenty-five subjects with a whiplash-associated disorder still having symptoms or disability six weeks after injury.Interventions :
Method	The participants received 6-10 sessions of physiotherapy for six weeks with focus on either motor control or endurance and strength of neck muscles .
Method	The primary outcome measure was the Neck Disability Index .
Method	Secondary outcome measures were pain intensity , neck functioning and sick leave .
Result	No statistical significant differences concerning primary and secondary outcome measures were demonstrated between the groups .
Result	Approximately half of the participants in both groups obtained a clinically important change ( improvement ) on perceived disability assessed by Neck Disability Index at six weeks and one-year follow-up .
Result	The changes within both groups were statistically significant at six weeks , but not at one-year follow-up .
Result	For most pain-related variables clinical significant improvement was demonstrated in both groups at six weeks , but for fewer participants at one year .
Result	There was also statistical significant improvement within groups in some of the physical performance tests at one-year follow-up .
Result	The changes associated with motor control training and endurance / strength training of neck muscles were similar for reduced disability , pain and for improving physical performance .

Background	One of the core propositions in most clinical and descriptive models of personality disorders ( PDs ) is that these conditions are stable over time .
Background	However , the available empirical literature suggests that PDs are far less stable than these models imply .
Method	The present study examines the 10-year stability of PDs in a sample of depressed outpatients who were assessed for the full range of Axis II conditions across 5 assessments .
Method	Three primary issues are addressed ( a ) the stability of categorical PD diagnoses , ( b ) the relative stability of dimensional PD traits , and ( c ) the absolute stability of PD traits .
Result	The stability of PD diagnoses was poor to fair , and the stability of dimensional PD traits was fair to moderate .
Result	Growth curve analyses revealed complex patterns of change in absolute scores for PD traits across the 10-year interval .
Result	Stability of PDs was generally comparable to that of anxiety disorder diagnoses and normal personality traits .

Method	Prospective randomized blinded trial in a prehospital emergency system .
Method	To evaluate the effects of external active warming on acute back pain during rescue transport to hospital .
Background	Acute low back pain is one of the complaints that most often entails a visit to the physician or use of the emergency system .
Background	Superficial ( e.g. , hydrocolloid packs ) and deep heating ( e.g. , ultrasound ) can relieve acute low back pain in a clinical setting .
Background	Recent data showed significant benefit for patients in pain from minor trauma treated by active warming during emergency transport .
Method	Accordingly , we tested the hypothesis that active warming would reduce pain and anxiety in patients with acute low back pain being transported to a hospital .
Method	A total of 100 patients were included in our study .
Method	We selected only those suffering from acute pain > 60 mm on a visual analog scale in the lower back .
Method	Patients were randomly assigned to two groups : active warming with a carbon-fiber electric heating blanket ( Group 1 ) versus passive warming with a woolen blanket ( Group 2 ) during transfer to hospital .
Result	Pain scores on arrival at the hospital differed significantly between Group 1 and Group 2 ( P < 0.01 ) .
Result	In Group 1 , pain reduction from 74.2 + / - 8.5 mm VAS to 41.9 + / - 18.9 mm VAS ( P < 0.01 ) was noted between departure from the emergency site and arrival at the hospital .
Result	Pain scores remained practically unchanged in Group 2 ( 73.3 + / - 11.9 mm VAS and 74.1 + / - 12.0 mm VAS ) .
Result	Active warming reduces acute low back pain during rescue transport .

Method	A double-blind crossover comparison of three different single doses of a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor , zimelidine , and a placebo on quantified EEG parameters and psychological variables was carried out in ten healthy male volunteers .
Method	Each subject randomly received 100 mg , 200 mg and 300 mg of zimelidine as well as placebo .
Method	C4 -- P4 , P4 -- O2 , C3 -- P3 , P3 -- O1 and Fz -- O1 EEG samples were taken by means of collodium Ag/AgCl stick on electrodes .
Method	3 min average Fast Fourier Transformation power spectra based on 5 sec epochs were established .
Method	Additionally , performance tests and a subjective self-rating were carried out .
Method	The measurements , performed according to a strictly controlled schedule , were repeated 1 , 2 , 4 and 6 h post baseline ( i.e. 8 a.m. ) .
Method	The data analysis was performed by means of two-way variance analysis for repeated measurements .
Result	Administration of three different single oral doses of zimelidine was found to significantly stabilize the average vigilance behaviour in terms of reduced slow wave EEG activity and of increased monorhythmic alpha activity .
Result	Simultaneously , concentration ability was improved and mild feelings of activation were reported .
Result	The results are discussed in the light of biochemical aspects and with regard to neurophysiological vigilance concepts .

Background	Audit and feedback has been identified as having the potential to change the practice of health care professionals .
Method	To assess the effects of audit and feedback compared with other interventions in changing health professional practice and to assess whether the effectiveness of audit and feedback can be improved by modifying how it is done .
Method	We searched MEDLINE up to June 1997 , the Research and Development Resource Base in Continuing Medical Education , and reference lists of related systematic reviews and articles .
Method	Randomised trials of audit and feedback ( defined as any summary of clinical performance of health care over a specified period of time ) compared with other interventions .
Method	The participants were health care providers responsible for patient care .
Method	Two reviewers independently extracted data and assessed study quality .
Method	Twelve studies were included involving more than 2194 physicians .
Result	Seven trials with direct comparisons were included .
Result	The targeted behaviours were the management of low haemoglobin , the delivery of preventive care services ( two studies ) , the management of high cholesterol , the performance of cervical smears , and the ordering of diagnostic tests ( two studies ) .
Result	From the results of four trials , there is little evidence of a measurable effect of adding a complementary intervention such as a local consensus process to audit and feedback compared to audit and feedback alone .
Result	Two of three trials that compared audit and feedback to reminders reported that reminders were more effective in improving the delivery of some preventive services .
Result	It is not possible to recommend a complementary intervention to enhance the effectiveness of audit and feedback .
Result	Reminders might be more effective than audit and feedback to improve the delivery of some preventive services but the results are not striking .
Result	Few trials have investigated the effect of varying different characteristics of the audit and feedback process .
Result	Consideration should be given to testing the effects of modifying important characteristics such as the content , source , timing , recipient and format .

Background	Cervical cancer is a disease of middle-aged and elderly but still there are young women diagnosed with advanced disease that is incurable with local treatment and is treated with platinum-based combination chemotherapy .
Background	It is unknown whether these young patients have a poorer outcome compared to older patients or whether elderly patients have inferior outcome than younger patients when treated with combination chemotherapy .
Method	We compared the outcome between young ( < 35 ) , elderly ( > 70 ) and middle-aged ( 35-70 ) women who were treated with platinum-based combination chemotherapy for advanced , recurrent or persistent disease .
Method	Two hundred and eighteen patients were included in our database .
Result	The baseline clinical and disease characteristics were not different between age groups but anemia and thrombocytosis were more frequent in younger patients .
Result	Median survival for all patients was 13.4 ( 95 % CI 11-15 .8 ) months while survival of patients < 35 years of age was 9 months ( 95 % CI 5.8-12 ) , of patients older than 70 was 10 months ( 95 % CI 6.9-13 ) of patients 35 to 70 years of age was 14.5 months ( 95 % CI
Result	Multiple factors were significant for survival in univariate analysis but only weight loss , pain score and relapse inside an irradiated filed were significant predictors of outcome in multivariate analysis .
Result	Very young ( < 35 ) and elderly ( > 70 ) patients have a worse prognosis after treatment with combination chemotherapy for advanced or recurrent cervical cancer .
Result	Nevertheless , this difference is not significant when adjusted for other prognostic factors .

Background	Alendronate sodium ( ALN ) increases bone mineral density ( BMD ) in heterogeneous populations of postmenopausal women , but its effect is unknown in women with type 2 diabetes .
Method	The objective of this project was to compare changes in BMD during 3 years of ALN treatment versus placebo in diabetic women .
Method	We used data from the Fracture Intervention Trial , a randomized blinded placebo-controlled trial conducted at 11 centers in which 6458 women aged 54-81 years with a femoral neck BMD of < or = 0.68 g/cm ( 2 ) were randomly assigned to either placebo or 5 mg/d
Method	BMD was measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry .
Method	Type 2 diabetes ( n = 297 ) was defined by self-report , use of insulin or other hypoglycemic agents , or a random nonfasting glucose value > or = 200 mg/dl .
Result	In diabetic women , 3 years of ALN treatment was associated with increased BMD at all sites studied , including 6.6 % at the lumbar spine and 2.4 % at the hip , whereas women in the placebo group experienced a decrease in BMD at all sites except the lumbar spi
Result	The safety/tolerability of ALN was similar to placebo , except for abdominal pain , which was more likely in the ALN group .
Result	ALN increased BMD relative to placebo in older women with type 2 diabetes and was generally well tolerated as a treatment for osteoporosis .
Result	Increases in BMD with ALN therapy compared with placebo were similar between women with and without diabetes .

Background	Much research has been undertaken in the field of pain in an attempt to find an effective treatment .
Background	Insights into the underlying mechanisms of pain have been gained from studies using preclinical animal models ( acute stimuli , post-tissue injury and peripheral nerve injury ) and evaluating their similarity with the human condition .
Background	In this article , these pain models are summarized and the mechanisms of pain discussed in relation to spinal processing .
Background	In the context of this research the therapeutic potential of novel analgesics is highlighted as the future looks forward to the many possibilities that the targeted spinal delivery of drugs can bring .

Background	Functional mitral regurgitation ( MR ) is a powerful predictor of poor prognosis in patients with chronic heart failure ( CHF ) due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction ( LVSD ) .
Background	However , severity of MR varies with dynamic exercise .
Method	Accordingly , we sought to assess the prognostic value of exercise-induced changes in functional MR in patients with LVSD and functional MR at rest .
Method	One hundred four patients with chronic heart failure due to LVSD ( ejection fraction [ EF ] < 45 % ) and functional MR at rest underwent conventional continuous 2-dimensional Doppler echocardiography at rest and during maximal symptom-limited exercise .
Method	The primary end point of the study was all-cause mortality .
Method	The median follow-up period was 20 months .
Method	Fifty-six patients ( 54 % ) had ischemic cardiomyopathy .
Result	When feasible , all 56 patients with ischemic cardiomyopathy had undergone revascularization procedures before enrollment into the study .
Result	In the whole patient cohort , resting LV end-diastolic volume was 205 + / - 76 mL and EF was 26 % + / - 9 % .
Result	Univariate predictors of death were functional class ( New York Heart Association ) , LV EF , LV end-diastolic volume , resting mitral effective regurgitant orifice , mitral E deceleration time , tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion < or = 14 mm , systol
Result	Exercise-induced change in mitral effective regurgitant orifice did not predict survival ( HR 0.99 , 95 % CI 0.94-1 .04 , P = .63 ) .
Result	By Cox multivariate analysis , resting LV end-diastolic volume and tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion < or = 14 mm were the independent predictors of death .
Result	Exercise Doppler echocardiography does not refine the predictive value of resting Doppler echocardiography in patients with LVSD and functional MR at rest .

Background	Injury to the anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL ) has been suggested to alter the neuromuscular mechanism in the lower extremity .
Background	However , conclusive evidence regarding this occurrence has yet to be established during closed kinetic chain exercise .
Method	The purpose of this study was to assess differences in muscle activation during slideboard exercise between non-injured , ACL deficient , and ACL reconstructed individuals .
Method	Experimental design : comparative study .
Method	Setting research laboratory .
Method	Participants : subjects for this study included 10 healthy , non-injured ( NI ) individuals , 7 uni-lateral ACL deficient ( ACLD ) individuals , and 6 uni-lateral ACL reconstructed ( ACLR ) individuals .
Method	Interventions
Method	EMG activity was measured from the vastus medialis ( VM ) , vastus lateralis ( VL ) , medial hamstring ( MH ) , lateral hamstring ( LH ) , tibialis anterior ( TA ) , and medial gastrocnemius ( MG ) muscles during slideboard performance .
Method	Measures
Method	EMG for each muscle during each of 6 phases of 1 average slideboard cycle was expressed as a percentage of EMG during a maximal voluntary contraction .
Result	The results demonstrated that during slideboard phase I the VM , VL , and TA muscles generated the greatest amount of activity as compared to the other muscles .
Result	Vastus medialis muscle activation was found to be significantly higher than the other muscles in the involved/dominant limb , as compared to the non-involved/non-dominant limb during slideboard phase II .
Result	During slideboard phases III-VI , tibialis anterior muscle activation was found to be consistently higher than the other muscles , while hamstring muscle activity was consistently the lowest .
Result	It is concluded that adaptive changes following ACL injury during a dynamic , closed kinetic chain activity such as the slideboard exercise , may be a restoration of a bi-lateral balance in muscle activation .

Background	Fentanyl is commonly used systemically or neuraxially for the management of chronic pain .
Background	It can be administered intrathecally via implanted pump , but it is generally considered only after trials of intrathecal ( IT ) morphine and hydromorphone have proven ineffective .
Method	Published experience with IT fentanyl is limited , and long-term therapy at relatively high doses has not been described previously .
Method	We describe four patients who were treated with IT fentanyl after other analgesic approaches had failed and who gradually underwent dose escalation to levels as high as 20 times those previously reported .
Result	Safety and tolerability were maintained during dose titration .
Result	Our experience highlights an expanding scope of practice in the use of IT opioids in general and fentanyl specifically and suggests that high-dose fentanyl can be used safely in highly selected patients .

Background	We have previously shown that dietary ( n-3 ) fatty acids decrease mammary tumor vascularization and PGE ( 2 ) production .
Background	One possible mechanism may be the modulation of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) production by PGE ( 2 ) .
Method	Macrophages are major producers of VEGF , and thus we assessed the role of PGE ( 2 ) in vitro and in vivo on their VEGF production .
Result	When added to macrophages , pharmacological ( 10 ( -7 ) M ) but not physiological ( 10 ( -9 ) to 10 ( -11 ) M ) concentrations of PGE ( 2 ) increased VEGF mRNA and protein levels .
Result	That increased expression was relatively rapid and sustained up to 8 hrs , but declined by 24 hrs .
Result	Similarly , dibutryl cAMP increased production of VEGF protein which was completely inhibited by H89 .
Result	Addition of cAMP-elevating agents further potentiated the production of VEGF by PGE ( 2 ) .
Result	Next , ( n-3 ) and ( n-6 ) fatty acids were added to macrophages in vitro or provided in the diet .
Result	Macrophages of mice fed safflower oil ( n-6 ) had 2 - to 4-fold greater copy number of VEGF transcripts after lipopolysaccarhide ( LPS ) stimulation compared to fish oil ( n-3 ) .
Result	A decreasing trend was seen in LPS-induced VEGF secretion from macrophages in vitro after docosahexaenoic acid or eicosapentaenoic acid incubation compared to arachidonic acid .
Result	While pharmacological concentrations of PGE ( 2 ) modulate VEGF expression , physiological alterations did not alter VEGF protein production by macrophages .

Background	To determine the therapeutic value of selective salpingography ( SSG ) for infertile women with patent fallopian tubes .
Method	Retrospective , case-control analysis .
Method	Setting
Method	University Hospital , infertility clinic .
Method	Infertile cases with patent tubes documented by hysterosalpingography ( HSG ) or by HSG followed by laparoscopic examination ( n = 80 ) .
Method	Hysteroscopic SSG .
Method	Patency rate of tubes by SSG .
Method	Pregnancy rate following SSG .
Result	Eighty cases were divided into the study group ( SSG performed , 37 cases ) and the case-control group ( SSG not performed , 43 cases ) .
Result	Successful SSG of at least one tube was obtained in all of 37 cases ( 100 % ) in whom SSG was attempted .
Result	A patency rate of 95.9 % was documented in the 73 cannulated tubes of these cases .
Result	The total subsequent pregnancy rate ( 48.6 % ) within 12 months of follow-up after SSG was significantly higher than that ( 11.6 % ) obtained in the control group ( p < 0.001 ) .
Result	The cumulative pregnancy rate in the study group was also significantly higher than that in the control group ( p < 0.001 ) .
Result	The findings of the present study encourage the application of SSG to infertile women , either as a sole therapeutic approach or in association with other methods of assisted reproductive technology , even if their fallopian tubes are shown to be patent by

Background	Sertraline and fluoxetine have pharmacokinetic and pharmacologic differences , which may be of clinical relevance .
Method	A randomized , double-blind , parallel-group study of 6 weeks ' duration comparing the efficacy and safety of sertraline ( 50-100 mg/day ) with those of fluoxetine ( 20-40 mg/day ) was conducted in 286 psychiatric outpatients with DSM-III-R major depression or b
Method	Primary efficacy measurements consisted of the 17-item Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression ( HAM-D ) and the Clinical Global Impressions ( CGI ) scale .
Method	Secondary measurements included the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety ( HAM-A ) , the Raskin Depression Scale , the Covi Anxiety Scale , and the Leeds Sleep Questionnaire .
Method	Additionally , scores for two items and five factors from the HAM-D were analyzed .
Method	Efficacy was based on 124 evaluable patients in each treatment group .
Result	As measured by HAM-D and CGI-Severity scores , there was a significant ( p < .001 ) improvement from baseline to each follow-up visit in both treatment groups with no statistically significant difference between groups .
Result	There was also no significant difference in the proportion of responders in each group .
Result	CGI-Improvement responder rates were 69 % for sertraline and 67 % for fluoxetine .
Result	Results of secondary efficacy measurements followed the same trend , although from the second week of treatment there was a numerical advantage ( not statistically significant ) for sertraline over fluoxetine in improving anxiety symptoms as measured by the
Result	Headache and nausea were the most frequently reported events for both drugs .
Result	The incidence of early patient withdrawals due to treatment-emergent adverse events was 14 % for sertraline and 13 % for fluoxetine .
Result	The starting dosage ( sertraline 50 mg/day , fluoxetine 20 mg/day ) was the final dosage in 76 % of patients in both treatment groups .
Result	Sertraline and fluoxetine were equally effective and well tolerated in patients with major depression and associated anxiety .

Background	Up to 35 % of the world population suffer from functional gastrointestinal disorders ( FGD ) , accounting for about 40 % of gastroenterologic and 12 % of primary care practice .
Background	Society incurs high costs from FGD morbidity in terms of medical workups and absenteeism from work .
Background	FGD are characterized by chronic and recurrent symptoms of the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract without detectable structural or biochemical abnormalities .
Background	In the absence of universal biologic markers , the diagnosis is based on consensus symptom criteria ( 1 ) .
Background	This chapter reviews current knowledge of the pathophysiology and provides a practical approach to patients with functional dyspepsia and irritable bowel syndrome , 2 of the most common functional GI syndromes .

Background	The purpose of this research was to ascertain whether the existence of swallowing apnea ( SA ) was the sole result of glottic closure or the result of its own neural mechanism .
Method	Forty individuals served as participants .
Method	Groups 1 and 2 consisted of 10 individuals with laryngectomy less than one year and 10 individuals greater than one year , respectively .
Method	Groups 3 and 4 comprised 20 individuals who were age - and gender-matched to Groups 1 and 2 .
Method	SA duration ( SAD ) was acquired during saliva swallows and 10 - , 15 - , 20 - , and 25-ml water boluses .
Method	A repeated measures ANOVA was performed to determine mean differences in SAD as a function of group and bolus volume .
Result	Significant main effects of group and bolus volume were found and a significant interaction of group x bolus volume was found .
Result	In post-hoc analyses , both groups with laryngectomy exhibited statistically longer SADs than control groups .
Result	In single-df comparisons , the laryngectomy group over one year exhibited significantly shorter SADs on smaller versus larger bolus volumes .
Result	Even though SA is theoretically no longer needed in individuals with laryngectomy , the presence of SA remained in both groups with laryngectomy .
Result	Thus , these results support the hypothesis that SA is the result of its own neural command .

Method	A prospective cross-sectional study was conducted .
Method	To determine the relation between degeneration of all the joints in the cervical spine , and to identify the effects of litigation on pain and disability levels in trauma and nontrauma patients .
Background	The link between spinal degeneration and patient symptoms remains controversial .
Background	Two recent similar studies present conflicting results concerning the association between spinal degeneration and symptomatology .
Background	These two studies , performed in different countries , did not consider the impact of impending litigation on self-reported pain and disability levels .
Background	The role of the uncovertebral and facet articulations has hitherto not been investigated .
Method	Radiographic and questionnaire data from 180 consecutive patients with neck pain were collected .
Method	Neck pain severity was measured using two time-dependent scales .
Method	All patients completed the Neck Disability Index ( NDI ) and questions about chronicity , etiology , and associated litigation .
Method	The radiographs were evaluated for the number of levels of degeneration and the severity of degeneration in the discs as well as the uncovertebral and facet articulations .
Result	In this study , 71 patients ( 40.57 % ) reported neck pain as a result of injury .
Result	However , only 5.1 % had associated litigation .
Result	There was no statistically significant difference in pain severity or disability levels between the patients with and those without cervical degeneration .
Result	According to the findings , the number of levels of cervical degeneration and the severity of degeneration in the discs , facets , and uncovertebral joints are not related to the levels of pain and disability .
Result	Patients reporting neck pain caused by injury had a tendency ( P = 0.055 ) to more pain during the preceding week and significantly more disability ( P < 0.001 ) .
Result	Significant differences included pain intensity ( P < 0.025 ) , reading ( P < 0.001 ) , headaches ( P < 0.025 ) , ability to drive ( P < 0.01 ) , and concentration ( P < 0.01 ) .
Result	Women reported significantly more pain ( P < 0.01 ) and disability ( P < 0.001 ) than men , but did not have more degeneration in any of the joints .
Result	In patients with neck pain , there is no difference in reported pain and disability levels between those with and those without evidence of cervical spine degeneration .
Result	Patients whose neck pain is the result of trauma report significantly more pain and disability than nontrauma patients .
Result	This is not because of more spinal degeneration or overriding litigation issues .

Background	The rat forced swimming test ( FST ) distinguishes selective serotonin ( 5-HT ) and selective noradrenaline ( NA ) reuptake-inhibitors , which respectively increase swimming and climbing behaviours .
Background	However , NA-system-mediated inhibition of 5-HT-induced swimming prevents dual 5-HT/NA reuptake-inhibition to produce concurrently climbing with swimming .
Background	Since adaptative neurochemical processes occur in the treatment of depression , we examined the influence of long-term antidepressant treatment on these interactions .
Method	( 1 ) Selective [ fluoxetine : 10 mg/kg ; desipramine : 10 mg/kg ] and non-selective [ milnacipran : 40 mg/kg ; mirtazapine : 20 mg/kg ] antidepressants were administered subacutely ( 3inj ) and chronically ( 17inj ) over 16 days .
Method	( 2 ) A subacute fluoxetine-desipramine combination ( 10-10 mg/kg ) was administered in rats that were pre-treated with chronic-desipramine ( 10 mg/kg per day , 14 days ) .
Method	( 3 ) NA-system-mediated interactions were further examined by combining the alpha ( 2 ) - receptor agonist clonidine ( 5 , 10 , 20 , 200 microg/kg ) with 10 mg/kg fluoxetine .
Method	( 1 )
Result	Long-term treatment with either fluoxetine or desipramine does not modify the behavioural response produced by their subacute administration .
Result	( 2 ) In contrast , whereas subacute-milnacipran increases climbing solely , chronic-milnacipran produces greater anti-immobility effects and increases both climbing and swimming behaviours .
Result	Similarly , the fluoxetine-desipramine combination produces climbing solely , but increases both climbing and swimming behaviours in animals pre-treated with chronic-desipramine .
Result	Chronic but not subacute-mirtazapine increases swimming behaviour .
Result	( 3 ) clonidine dose-dependently antagonizes fluoxetine-induced anti-immobility effects and swimming behaviour .
Result	Chronic enhancement of NA-transmission alters NA-system-mediated inhibition of 5-HT-induced behaviour in the FST , which may involve alpha ( 2 ) - receptors .

Background	Patients with chronic kidney disease have a shortened life expectancy and carry a high symptom burden .
Background	Clinicians need sophisticated expertise in pain and symptom management and skills in communication to meet the many needs of this population .
Background	This article reviews the literature and discusses prognosis , ethical and legal considerations , symptoms , treatment , and end-of-life issues .
Background	The field of nephrology is shifting from an exclusive focus on increasing survival to one that provides greater attention to quality of life .
Background	There is an opportunity to integrate many of the advances of palliative medicine into the comprehensive treatment of these patients .

Background	A primary care group diabetes care program using telemedicine was developed and its feasibility and acceptability were tested in 22 subjects with Type 2 diabetes mellitus using a one-group , pretest-posttest quasi-experimental design .
Method	Compliance with the program was 100 % .
Result	Significant reductions in total calorie intake as well as body mass index were achieved , with an increase in the percentage of subjects achieving better diabetes control as measured by the 2-hr hemastix .
Result	Improvements in diabetes knowledge and disease-specific and generic measures of quality of life were also observed .
Method	Most subjects evaluated this mode of service delivery favorably in the questionnaire and focus group discussions .
Result	There is potential for the integration of this mode of service delivery into current health services .

Background	Most diagnostic nomenclatures do not allow for the concurrent diagnosis of autism and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder ( ADHD ) .
Background	Clinic-based studies suggest autistic symptoms are common in children with ADHD , but such studies are prone to referral bias .
Background	This study assesses whether children with ADHD selected from the general twin population have elevated levels of autistic traits .
Method	Nine hundred forty-six twins identified by Missouri birth records were assigned to DSM-IV ADHD diagnoses and seven population-derived ADHD subtypes defined through latent class analysis of DSM-IV ADHD symptoms .
Method	The Social Responsiveness Scale ( SRS ) was used as a quantitative measure of autistic traits .
Method	Linear regression was used to evaluate whether mean SRS scores differed between ADHD diagnostic groups .
Result	Mean SRS scores for DSM-IV predominantly inattentive subtype and combined subtype ADHD groups were significantly higher than for subjects without DSM-IV ADHD ( p < .001 , both comparisons ) .
Result	Five of the population-derived ADHD subtypes ( talkative-impulsive , mild and severe inattentive , mild and severe combined ) had significantly higher mean SRS scores compared to the latent class subtype with few ADHD symptoms ( p < .001 , all comparisons ) .
Result	DSM-IV combined subtype and the population-derived severe combined subtype had the highest mean total SRS scores and the highest mean scores for each of the three autism symptom domains , with a substantial proportion of individuals scoring in the clinical
Result	This study provides population-based evidence for clinically significant elevations of autistic traits in children meeting diagnostic criteria for ADHD .
Result	These results have implications for the design and interpretation of studies of both disorders .

Background	Foot ulcers are a common complication in patients with diabetes .
Background	Negative pressure wound therapy ( NPWT ) is a wound care therapy that is being increasingly used in the management of foot ulcers .
Method	This article presents a systematic review examining the effectiveness of this therapy .
Method	The review question is how effective is NPWT in achieving wound healing in diabetes foot ulcers ?
Method	The primary outcome for this study was the number of patients achieving complete wound healing ( secondary outcomes , other markers of wound healing , adverse events and patient satisfaction ) .
Method	A systematic literature review and tabulative synthesis of randomised controlled trials ( RCTs ) .
Method	The review identified four RCTs of weak to moderate quality .
Result	Only one study examining NPWT in postamputation wound healing reported data on the primary outcome .
Result	These data show a 20 % improvement in wound healing [ odds ratios = 2.0 % , confidence interval ( CI ) -1.0 to 4.0 ] and number needed to treat = 6 ( CI 4-64 ) .
Result	No serious treatment-related complications were reported by any of the studies .
Result	One study suggested a reduction in the risk of secondary amputation ( absolute risk reduction = 7.9 % , CI 0.5-15 .43 ) .
Result	Studies also reported an increase in granulation and wound-healing rates in patients treated with NPWT therapy .
Result	No data on patient satisfaction or experience were reported .
Result	While all the studies included in the review indicated that the NPWT therapy is more effective than conventional dressings , the quality of the studies were weak and the nature of the inquiries in terms of outcome and patient selection divergent .
Result	There is a strong need for larger trials to assess NPWT therapy in diabetes care with different groups of patients and in relation to different clinical objectives and parameters .

Background	A number of studies have now documented that traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is associated with deficits in the recognition of basic emotions , the capacity to infer mental states of others ( theory of mind ) , as well as executive functioning .
Background	However , no study to date has investigated the relationship between these three constructs in the context of TBI .
Method	In the current study TBI participants ( N = 16 ) were compared with demographically matched healthy controls ( N = 17 ) .
Result	It was found that TBI participants ' recognition of basic emotions , as well as their capacity for mental state attribution , was significantly reduced relative to controls .
Result	Performance on both of these measures was strongly correlated in the healthy control , but not in the TBI sample .
Result	In contrast , in the TBI ( but not the control ) sample , theory of mind was substantially correlated with performance on phonemic fluency , a measure of executive functioning considered to impose particular demands upon cognitive flexibility and self-regulati
Result	These results are consistent with other evidence indicating that deficits in some aspects of executive functioning may at least partially underlie deficits in social cognition following TBI , and thus help explain the prevalence of social dysfunction in TB

Background	Coronary sinus cannulation and placement of left ventricular ( LV ) leads can be difficult .
Background	Occasionally alternative approaches are required .
Background	We report the first case of a modified transseptal LV endocardial lead placement via the left axillary vein for cardiac resynchronization .

Background	Obesity is well known to be associated with an increased prevalence of metabolic complications .
Background	Severe obesity is thus expected to have more important alterations of the metabolic profile than moderate obesity .
Method	This study aimed to compare the metabolic profile of pre - and postmenopausal severely obese women with moderately obese women .
Method	First , the metabolic profile of pre - ( n = 165 ) and postmenopausal ( n = 43 ) severely obese women ( body mass index ( BMI ) > or = 40 kg/m ( 2 ) ) was compared to that of pre - ( n = 52 ) and postmenopausal ( n = 35 ) moderately obese women ( BMI of 30-40 kg/m ( 2 ) ) .
Method	Thereafter , pre - and postmenopausal severely obese women were divided into two subgroups according to the presence/absence of a dysmetabolic profile .
Method	We used for comparison , a group of pre - and postmenopausal moderately obese women without a dysmetabolic profile .
Result	The metabolic profile of pre - and postmenopausal severely obese women was less deteriorated than expected when compared to moderately obese women .
Result	Moreover , severely obese women with or without a dysmetabolic profile displayed comparable or even lower plasma levels of cholesterol , HDL and LDL-cholesterol , and a lower cholesterol/HDL-cholesterol ratio than moderately obese women ( P < or = 0.05 ) .
Result	After menopause , the metabolic profile of severely obese women , dysmetabolic or not , was similar to that of moderately obese women .
Result	Blood pressure was , however , higher in severely obese women compared to moderately obese women , only before menopause ( P < or = 0.0001 ) .
Result	These results indicate that despite their large accumulation of adipose tissue , most of the severely obese women had a metabolic profile less deteriorated than expected , when compared to moderately obese women .

Method	Twenty-six patients with metastatic colorectal cancer were given cisplatin ( CDDP ) and dacarbazine ( DTIC ) .
Method	Patients who relapsed while receiving adjuvant 5-fluorouracil ( FU ) or had 5-FU-resistant metastatic disease were included .
Method	Median age was 52 years and the male-to-female ratio was 1 .
Result	Performance status ( ECOG ) was 3 in 5 patients and 0-2 in the remainder .
Method	CDDP ( 20 mg/m2/day i.v. ) and DTIC were given ( 250 mg/m2/day i.v. ) on days 1-5 .
Method	The treatment was repeated every 3 weeks until disease progression .
Result	Total response rate was 19.2 % ( 95 % confidence interval : 4.5-34 .3 % ) with one clinical complete response ( 3.8 % ) and 4 partial responses ( 15.4 % ) .
Result	Median response duration was 5 months .
Result	Median survival for the whole group and for responders was 6 and 8 months , respectively .
Result	In conclusion , CDDP + DTIC combination has modest activity in patients with colorectal cancer resistant to 5-FU treatment .

Background	E. coli strain SA 189 has been isolated from a calf with E. coli infection .
Background	The cultivation of this strain on a solid culture medium has resulted in its dissociation into two variants due to the loss of the capsule by the cells of the initial culture .
Background	Both variants of E. coli strain SA 189 ( capsular and acapsular ) are equally sensitive to antibiotics .
Background	The capsular variant has a narrower range of sensitivity of colicins and shows greater resistance to the bactericidal action of normal blood serum than the acapsular one .
Background	Bacteria belonging to these two variants differ perceptibly in the kinetics of disturbances in the barrier properties of their membrane apparatus under the action of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide , a cation detergent .
Background	The conditions permitting the differentiation of the capsular and acapsular forms of E. coli strain SA 189 by the kinetics of the damaging action of this detergent have been experimentally selected .

Background	Congestive heart failure ( CHF ) is often associated with undernutrition .
Background	Although loss of lean tissue may be detrimental to the host , a protective effect is conveyed as cardiac demands are reduced by lower whole-body oxygen consumption ( VO2 ) and circulating fluid volume .
Method	The aim of this study was to determine if continuous nasoenteric feeding could promote an anabolic state with increments in lean tissue in moderate-severe CHF patients without adversely effecting cardiac performance .
Method	Undernourished CHF patients on a metabolic ward were fed a formula diet infused intragastrically for 2 wk .
Method	The energy infusion rate was maintained at 1.4-1 .8 X measured resting metabolic rate .
Method	During the infusion period , body weight , elemental balances , VO2 , and cardiac function ( echocardiography ) were monitored .
Result	Results showed a loss in weight and extracellular fluid , gain in lean body mass ( eg , + delta N and delta K ) , unaltered VO2 , and unchanged cardiac function .
Result	Cardiac cachexia is therefore safely and effectively manageable by maintenance or repletional levels of nasoenteric feeding .

Background	Persistent neck symptoms following flexion-extension type injuries are common and may respond to early mobilization .
Background	Cervical degenerative disc and joint disease probably account for most chronic neck-related problems .
Background	Most often symptoms result from compression of neural structures , especially nerve roots .
Background	The cervical spine is commonly affected by rheumatoid arthritis , ankylosing spondylitis , and other inflammatory arthropathies .
Background	Potentially serious complications usually result from subluxations at C1-C2 , usually in chronic rheumatoid arthritis .
Result	Most problems causing neck pain without neurologic signs or symptoms can be managed conservatively with physical therapy maneuvers , especially interrupted traction .

Method	In a randomised prospective controlled trial of 52 patients aged 16 to 65 we compared early non-weightbearing ankle mobilisation with ankle immobilisation following surgical treatment of bimalleolar ankle fractures .
Result	At 3 months there was no significant difference between the two groups in the range of ankle movements or pain .
Result	There was however a significant difference in the gait pattern with a higher proportion of cases in the early ankle mobilisation group having a symmetrical gait ( P = 0.0001 ) .

Background	The etiologic bases of CFS are undetermined at the present time .
Background	It is very important to distinguish the patients with CFS as defined by the Centers for Disease Control ( CDC ) case definition of Holmes et al. from patients with physical and laboratory findings suggesting dual infections and/or underlying immunodeficienc
Background	Particularly fruitful might be a longitudinal immunovirologic study of patients who exhibit CFS following a well-documented viral infection .

Background	Although ventilation with small tidal volumes is recommended in patients with established acute lung injury , most others receive highly variable tidal volume aimed in part at normalizing arterial blood gas values .
Background	We tested the hypothesis that acute lung injury , which develops after the initiation of mechanical ventilation , is associated with known risk factors for ventilator-induced lung injury such as ventilation with large tidal volume .
Method	Retrospective cohort study .
Method	Four intensive care units in a tertiary referral center .
Method	Patients who received invasive mechanical ventilation for > or = 48 hrs between January and December 2001 .
Method	None .
Result	The main outcome of interest , acute lung injury , was assessed by independent review of daily digital chest radiographs and arterial blood gases .
Result	Ventilator settings , hemodynamics , and acute lung injury risk factors were extracted from the Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation III database and the patients ' medical records .
Result	Of 332 patients who did not have acute lung injury from the outset , 80 patients ( 24 % ) developed acute lung injury within the first 5 days of mechanical ventilation .
Result	When expressed per predicted body weight , women were ventilated with larger tidal volume than men ( mean 11.4 vs. 10.4 mL/kg predicted body weight , p < .001 ) and tended to develop acute lung injury more often ( 29 % vs. 20 % , p = .068 ) .
Result	In a multivariate analysis , the main risk factors associated with the development of acute lung injury were the use of large tidal volume ( odds ratio 1.3 for each mL above 6 mL/kg predicted body weight , p < .001 ) , transfusion of blood products ( odds rat
Result	The association between the initial tidal volume and the development of acute lung injury suggests that ventilator-associated lung injury may be an important cause of this syndrome .
Result	Height and gender should be considered when setting up the ventilator .
Result	Strong consideration should be given to limiting large tidal volume , not only in patients with established acute lung injury but also in patients at risk for acute lung injury .

Background	Recent advances in therapy for multiple sclerosis ( MS ) have centred on the use of the disease-modifying drugs glatiramer acetate ( GA ) and interferon ( IFN ) beta .
Background	Several large-scale clinical trials have been carried out on the use of these compounds , but there have been few studies that have directly compared their efficacy in MS.
Background	Furthermore , there has been controversy and confusion over the IFN beta therapy regimen that will achieve the best possible clinical outcome for MS patients .
Method	This review focuses principally on clinical trials of IFN beta-1a , where data that allow direct comparison of different treatment regimens are now available .
Result	Current data indicate that IFN beta , and in particular IFN beta-1a , has important advantages over GA in the treatment of relapsing-remitting MS ( RRMS ) .
Result	Additionally , IFN beta-1a ( Rebif , Serono ) , 44 microg administered subcutaneously ( s.c. ) three times weekly ( t.i.w. ) , is significantly more effective than IFN beta-1a ( Avonex , Biogen ) , 30 microg administered intramuscularly once weekly .
Result	For optimal management of RRMS , treatment with IFN beta-1a , 44 microg s.c. t.i.w. , should begin as early as possible after diagnosis .

Background	This article describes the effect of introducing a cohort area into a vascular surgery ward where a sustained increase in new cases of meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) made the implementation of standard MRSA infection control precautions
Background	A recent review of published reports concluded , ` that little evidence could be found to suggest that isolation measures recommended in the UK are effective ' .
Background	The authors recommended a reporting format to enable the evidence for isolation to be gathered more systematically .
Method	This paper follows the recommended reporting format .
Result	The setting was a 30-bedded acute and subacute vascular surgery ward within a tertiary care hospital in Glasgow , UK .
Result	The data were analysed as an interrupted time series of 19 months pre-cohort , eight months with cohort and eight months post cohort .
Result	Following the instigation of the cohort area , there was a significant reduction in the number of nosocomial MRSA isolates from patients ( P = 0.0005 ) .
Result	This reduction was sustained after the cohort area was discontinued .
Result	In conclusion , effective separation of MRSA-colonized / - infected patients from patients who are not colonized/infected with MRSA , using a cohort area , resulted in a significant reduction in MRSA cross-colonization and cross-infection .
Result	The resulting reduction in MRSA prevalence within the unit facilitated effective screening and isolation of subsequent patients once the cohort area had been discontinued .

Method	Molecular biology and microscope imaging techniques were used to map putative neural substrates of hyperactivity and attention deficit in an animal model , the juvenile prehypertensive male spontaneously hypertensive rat ( SHR ) .
Background	We have studied in anterior forebrain sections of SHR and Wistar-Kyoto Normotensive ( WKY ) controls the spatial distribution of neural markers such as : ( i ) dopamine ( DA ) D-1 and D-2 receptor families by radioligand binding studies ; ( ii ) the Ca2 + / calmodulin
Result	Microcomputer-assisted high-resolution image analysis showed in the SHR a higher density of DA D-1 receptors and a lower density of D-3 autoreceptors paralleled by a reduced number of elements positive for CaMKII and TFs in a restricted segment of the ant
Result	The differential rostro-caudal distribution of D-1 receptors and D-3 autoreceptors is discussed in the light of current hypotheses of DA mesocorticolimbic system functioning .
Result	In addition , the segmental defect was partially reversed by subchronic treatment with a DA re-uptake blocker , Methylphenidate ( MPH ; 3 mg/kg ) and by environmental stimulation during the fifth and sixth postnatal week .
Result	The findings are consistent with the role of genetic determinants and environmental factors in the phenotypic expression of hyperactivity and attention deficit .

Background	The objective of this study was to explore the effect of cotreatment with recombinant human growth hormone ( GH ) , gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonist ( GnRHa ) and human menopausal gonadotrophin ( HMG ) for induction of ovulation in women with clomiphene r
Method	It was designed as a randomized , double-blind , placebo controlled trial in which 30 women with anovulation associated with PCOS who were resistant to clomiphene all received DTRP6-LHRH ( Decapeptyl microcapsules , 3.75 mg , i.m. ) and , 2 weeks later , HMG in a
Method	From day 1 of HMG therapy , patients were randomized to receive either human GH ( Norditropin , 12 IU/day , i.m. , for 7 days ) or placebo .
Method	The number of ampoules , duration of treatment and daily effective dose of HMG required to achieve ovulation , serum oestradiol concentrations and number of follicles induced , ovulation and pregnancy rates , serum insulin and insulin-like growth factor-I ( IGF-I ) concentrations were measured .
Result	There were no significant differences between growth hormone and placebo groups in any of the outcomes measured , other than a growth hormone induced increase in serum insulin and IGF-I levels .
Result	We conclude that although GH kinetics are abnormal and GH pituitary reserves generally low in women with PCOS , adjuvant GH treatment to GnRHa/HMG does not influence follicular development or sensitivity in response to gonadotrophins and that it does not s

Method	The results were reviewed for thirty patients in whom a thoracolumbar fracture had been treated with a Harrington rod placed three segments cephalad and two or three segments caudad to the injured vertebra and a short arthrodesis with removal of the Harri
Method	The patients were evaluated with clinical examinations , lateral radiographs made with the spine in flexion and extension , and questionnaires at a median of thirty-two months after the stabilization .
Result	All of the arthrodeses were successful .
Result	The twenty patients who had a burst or compression fracture and who had posterior instrumentation lost only an average of 9 degrees of sagittal correction before attaining a solid fusion .
Result	For all thirty patients , the average motion in the sagittal plane at the vertebrae that had been spanned by the Harrington rod but not included in the arthrodesis ranged from 9 degrees at the third and fourth lumbar level to 2 degrees at the eighth and ni
Result	The average total motion between five vertebrae that had been spanned by the rod but did not have an arthrodesis was 24 degrees ; between four vertebrae , 23 degrees ; and between three vertebrae , 19 degrees .
Result	In this series of thoracolumbar fractures treated with a longer Harrington rod than needed to span the level of the arthrodesis and a short arthrodesis , there was a documented return of motion to segments that had been previously spanned by the instrument

Background	In attempts to increase the specificity of the CA 12-5 test the ratio of CA 12-5 and CEA concentrations has been determined in 155 cancer patients , all of whom had an increased serum CA 12-5 .
Method	The patients included 47 with epithelial ovarian cancer , 38 with colorectal cancer , 24 with cervical cancer , 20 with lung cancer , 17 with gastric cancer , and 9 with pancreatic cancer .
Result	The CA 12-5 / CEA ratio in serum of patients with ovarian cancer ranged from 30 to 920 ( mean 251 ) , whereas in other types of cancer the highest ratio was 240 and the mean was 13 .
Result	All 47 patients with ovarian cancer , but only 7 of the 108 patients with other types of cancer , showed a CA 12-5 / CEA ratio greater than 25 .
Result	About 10 % of the patients with gastric or colorectal cancer but none of those with other types of cancer showed an increased ratio .
Result	As the predictive value of a CA 12-5 / CEA ratio of less than 25 excluding ovarian cancer is 100 % , we recommend measuring the CEA concentration in all those with increased CA 12-5 and calculation of the CA 12-5 / CEA ratio .

Background	Despite advances in medical knowledge and available methods of treating spinal problems , the costs these problems generate are growing in a constant and exponential manner in western countries .
Background	Back pain is not different , commoner or more severe than in the past .
Background	This raises the question whether present-day management , which often runs counter to current scientific evidence , is appropriate .
Background	Practically speaking , so-called specific back pain is to be distinguished from nonspecific or common back pain .
Background	The former arises from a precise lesion ( infectious , tumoral , inflammatory or traumatic ) , while the latter has no obvious underlying cause .
Background	Fortunately this preliminary differentiation is usually possible on the basis of the history and clinical workup alone .
Background	In this paper we deal solely with common back pain , as being by far the most frequent in everyday practice .
Background	Once a specific origin has been ruled out , the chief aim should be earliest possible resumption of the patient 's normal activities .
Background	Various methods , embracing drug treatment , physiotherapy , and in appropriate cases ergotherapy , are available for this purpose .
Background	If this fails , the physician must react as rapidly as possible to prevent the condition becoming chronic .
Background	Regard should be had for the various psychosocial factors which interfere with the healing process , and a method should be adopted which is no longer based on the classic biomedical model but on a bio-psycho-social approach as proposed by Waddell .
Background	If necessary the patient should be referred to a specialist ( rheumatologist , rehabilitation , orthopedist etc ) .
Background	Back pain is extremely widespread in the population at large and is a frequent reason why people consult a physician .
Background	On these grounds the primary care physician has a key role to play in the initial workup and also in the acute , subacute or chronic stage of the evolution .
Background	This review of the principles which should guide the practical approach to the back-pain patient is intended to aid the practitioner in his tasks of diagnosis and therapy .

Background	The aim of this study was to analyse and to verify the efficacy of systematic advice for alcoholism prevention , assessing the reduction of the number in risk drinkers .
Method	A multicenter randomized controlled clinical trial was designed , to perform in general practitioner setting , on a sample of risk drinkers ( alcohol intake > 280 g weekly , without dependence ) sent by random in intervention group ( systematic brief advice wit
Method	The procedure to incorporate in both groups included physical exam , a blood test and the MALT questionnaire .
Method	A descriptive and analytic study on included variables was realised , assessing the percentage of drinkers who reduced alcohol intake below risk limit at the end of a year follow up , as well as the reduction intake in each group .
Result	Of the 139 included males , 75 were in the intervention group and 64 in the control group .
Result	The percentage of patients not excluded by MALT > 10 , and/or liver disease , that finished the 1 year follow up , was 46 % , being the sample average age of 43 + / - 11.8 .
Result	Patients included in both groups were initially comparable .
Result	At the end of a year follow up there were statistically significant differences in : percentage of risk drinkers who decreased alcohol intake below 280 g weekly ( 82 % intervention group ; 47 % control group ) ; percentage of reduction in GPT , GGT , triglycerides
Result	The efficacy of isolated advice of general practitioner was proved to achieve the alcohol intake reduction below the risk limit accepted in male risk drinkers without alcohol dependence .
Result	The systematic follow up during a year significantly improves the results achieved with the isolated advice .

Method	The effect of a flaxseed oil-based diet on tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF alpha ) and interleukin 1 beta ( IL-1 beta ) synthesis was examined in healthy volunteers .
Result	Use of flaxseed oil in domestic food preparation for 4 wk inhibited TNF alpha and IL-1 beta production by approximately 30 % .
Result	Fish-oil supplementation ( 9 g/d ) continued for a further 4 wk ; TNF alpha and IL-1 beta synthesis were inhibited by 74 % and 80 % , respectively .
Result	There was a significant inverse exponential relation between TNF alpha or IL-1 beta synthesis and mononuclear cell content of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) , an n -- 3 fatty acid derived from ingested EPA ( fish oil ) or metabolism of ingested alpha-linolenic ac
Result	Cytokine production decreased as cellular EPA increased to approximately 1 % of total fatty acids .
Result	Further increases in EPA content did not result in further decreases in cytokine production .
Result	The results indicate that vegetable oils rich in n -- 3 fatty acids inhibit TNF alpha and IL-1 beta synthesis .

Background	Adenosine kinase ( AK ; EC 2.7.1.20 ) is a key intracellular enzyme regulating intra-and extracellular concentrations of adenosine ( ADO ) , an endogenous neuromodulator , antinociceptive , and anti-inflammatory autocoid .
Background	AK inhibition provides a means of potentiating local tissue concentrations of endogenous ADO , and AK inhibitors may have therapeutic potential as analgesic and anti-inflammatory agents .
Method	The effects of ABT-702 , a novel , potent ( IC ( 50 ) = 1.7 nM ) , and selective non-nucleoside AK inhibitor were examined in rat models of nociception and acute inflammation .
Result	ABT-702 was orally effective and fully efficacious to suppress nociception in a spectrum of pain models in the rat , including carrageenan-induced thermal hyperalgesia , the formalin test of persistent pain , and models of nerve injury-induced and diabetic n
Result	ABT-702 was also effective in the carrageenan-induced paw edema model of acute inflammation ( ED ( 50 ) = 70 micromol/kg p.o. ) .
Result	The antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects of ABT-702 were blocked by selective ADO receptor antagonists , consistent with endogenous ADO accumulation and ADO receptor activation as a mechanism of action .
Result	The antinociceptive effects of ABT-702 were not blocked by the opioid antagonist naloxone .
Result	In addition , ABT-702 showed less potential to develop tolerance to its antinociceptive effects compared with morphine .
Result	ABT-702 had no significant effect on rotorod performance or heart rate ( at 30-300 micromol/kg p.o. ) , mean arterial pressure ( at 30-100 micromol/kg p.o. ) , or exploratory locomotor activity ( at < / = 10 micromol/kg p.o. ) .
Result	Thus , ABT-702 is a novel , non-nucleoside AK inhibitor , with a nonopioid , non-nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug mechanism of action , which shows antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory activity in vivo .

