Problem	On the accuracy of collisional energy transfer parameters for reaction kinetics applications: detailed evaluation of data from direct experiments
Result	It is shown that the spread among the various “direct” experimental 〈ΔE〉 data in the literature, so unsatisfactory for their application in chemical kinetics, can be removed consistently.
Result	Underlying agreement within very small uncertainties is demonstrated for the case of the much studied collisional relaxation of highly vibrationally excited azulene.
Method	Benchmark experimental data for the collisional energy transfer of highly vibrationally excited azulene obtained by the method of “kinetically controlled selective ionization (KCSI)” (U. Hold, T. Lenzer, K. Luther and A. C. Symonds, J. Chem. Phys., 2003, 119, 11 192) are used for a detailed comparison with earlier measurements employing time-resolved ultraviolet absorption (UVA) and infrared fluorescence (IRF).
Method	The experimental UVA and IRF traces are simulated by convolution of the transient vibrational distributions g(E) during relaxation obtained from KCSI measurements with the respective calibration curves of the UVA and IRF experiments.
Result	The differences between such simulations and the experimental curves are traced back to non-negligible contributions of azulene self-collisions in the UVA and IRF data.
Result	Astonishing quantitative agreement is reached when azulene/bath gas mixing ratios of the corresponding UVA/IRF experiments are fully accounted for in the KCSI simulations.
Conclusion	The influence of self-collisions is thus quantitatively assessed as an important source of error in addition to the well-known problem of calibration curve uncertainties in UVA and IRF detection as discussed earlier (T. Lenzer, K. Luther, K. Reihs and A. C. Symonds, J. Chem. Phys., 2000, 112, 4090).
Background	Collisional energy transfer (CET) is a key process in a large variety of chemical reaction systems.1,2
Background	In cases like unimolecular or combination reactions, CET rates directly determine the total rates of the chemical reactions in the so-called “low pressure regime” and define the position of the fall-off range of diminishing pressure dependence at increasing densities.
Background	The analysis of such pressure dependent reactions or the extrapolation of restricted experimental data in the fall-off range towards limiting low and high pressure values k0 and k∞ is mostly done on the basis of well known analytical expressions from statistical rate theory.3,4
Background	In this approach, CET information is considered only in the form of a single collision efficiency parameter βc.
Background	An approximate analytical expression5 is mostly used to relate βc to 〈ΔE〉, the average amount of energy transferred per collision.
Background	A more general and better alternative consists in a numerical solution of the energy specific master equation of the reaction system, which needs as input data specific rate constants k(E) for the reactive steps and correspondingly kcoll(E) for inelastic collisions, usually quoted as 〈ΔE(E)〉 = kcoll(E)Z–1, with Z being the gas kinetic collision number.
Background	At chemically significant energies such CET data usually correspond to very large amounts of vibrational energy and densities of states.
Method	Analysis of pressure dependent data on reaction rates or yields from measurements in the fall-off range or under chemical activation conditions was the first method to derive 〈ΔE〉 values under such conditions and is still used today.
Method	However, the inherent disadvantages of this approach are well known: Due to the relation between βc and 〈ΔE〉, measurements of βc require a much higher precision to achieve the same level of accuracy as a corresponding direct determination of 〈ΔE〉.
Method	But more important, such data evaluation unavoidably includes the absolute value for a reaction rate in the measured product expression with an unknown error limit or a tacit assumption of quasi-infinite theoretical accuracy.
Method	The possibilities to clearly assign finer observed effects to either the energy transfer or the reactive properties are severely limited.
Method	In principle this dilemma was overcome with the advent of direct experiments to measure 〈ΔE〉 at chemically relevant energies independent from any knowledge on chemical reaction rates.
Method	Time-resolved infrared fluorescence (IRF)6 and “hot” ultraviolet absorption (UVA)7 became the most important techniques.
Method	However, the agreement between various measurements turned out to be much less than might be expected.
Method	This is very obvious for some frequently studied molecules, especially toluene and azulene, for which direct CET measurements with various techniques or even with the same have led to sometimes astonishing differences, see e.g. Figs. 1 and 2 and Fig. 22 in ref. 8 or Fig. 20 in .ref. 9
Method	As all these methods directly rely on the quality of a calibration curve for data evaluation, arguments on e.g. deficiencies in the quality of these reference curves have been exchanged mutually but the issue could not be settled.
Method	The considerable spread among reported “direct” 〈ΔE〉 values has led to a sort of common belief among users of 〈ΔE〉 data for chemical kinetics applications that the field of large molecule energy transfer at higher energies is still not really settled.
Method	Typically then, averages of the available first moment data are taken in the hope to arrive at what is believed to be the best value.
Method	And as a consequence 〈ΔE〉 values inferred from analysis of e.g. pressure dependent rate constants in the fall-off range are very generously called “reasonable”.
Background	Thus the impact hoped from directly measured 〈ΔE〉 values has not yet been achieved, namely to define much closer boundaries for the CET part in pressure dependent chemical rate data, with improved resulting possibilities to identify more detail in disagreement between chemical reaction rate models and reality.
Method	With the results from a second generation method, the kinetically controlled selective ionization (KCSI) this situation has changed.
Method	As the only technique so far available, KCSI can determine complete distributions of CET transition probabilities P(E′,E) even at quasi-continuous densities of states.
Method	This is done by monitoring the shape of the time dependent population distributions of highly vibrationally excited molecules, as they relax in the electronic ground state from a high initial energy.10
Method	The resulting 〈ΔE〉 data are of unprecedented accuracy, typically on the order of 2–7%.
Method	More important, KCSI data are widely and in favourable cases – like that of azulene treated in this paper – completely independent of external parameters of calibration data.
Method	Thus they provide a benchmark for reevaluation of earlier direct data.
Method	Already in the KCSI paper of toluene relaxation9 one example was shown, in which drastic discrepancies between an early UVA set of 〈ΔE〉 and new KCSI data was completely removed with a reconstruction of the experimental curve from time dependent KCSI population distributions and a very minor change in the most uncertain part of the calibration curve.
Problem	In this paper we apply a similar detailed analysis to various examples of the deactivation of highly vibrationally excited azulene, which has become a benchmark system for investigations of CET.
Background	Time-resolved ultraviolet absorption has been applied in several studies.
Background	The first experiments reported an almost energy independent 〈ΔE〉 for all bath gases, with the exception of excess energies below roughly 10 000 cm–1.7
Background	Subsequently these studies were extended to other excitation energies.11,12
Background	In contrast to the early study, an almost linear energy dependence of the first moment of energy transfer was found, though a leveling-off at the highest energies (about 50 000 cm–1) could not be ruled out.
Background	The most recent measurements, carried out at temperatures ≥373 K for excitation energies <20 000 cm–1, show the highest signal-to-noise ratio obtained so far in an azulene UVA experiment.13
Background	An almost linear energy dependence of 〈ΔE〉 was found over the whole energy range for all colliders, sometimes with substantial deviations from the earlier UVA data.
Background	In addition, a variety of measurements employing time-resolved IR fluorescence exists.6,14–16
Background	These data were later reanalyzed with an adjusted calibration curve.
Background	This resulted in a substantial change of the original 〈ΔE〉 values by 30–50%, depending on the bath gas.17
Result	We show that the deviations of all measurements in Figs. 1 and 2 from the KCSI curves can be removed within very narrow error limits, with the origins of the apparent deviations identified in agreement with experimental parameters originally given or very reasonable estimates of them.
Conclusion	It will become clear that the sometimes puzzlingly large differences can be traced back to two main effects: (1) contamination of the available data sets by – at first sight – small amounts of self-collisions and (2) uncertainties of the calibration curves needed for converting the raw UV absorption and IR fluorescence data.
Conclusion	By proper accounting for these two effects, we can show that all older measurements for azulene and toluene are in fact in complete agreement with the KCSI benchmark data.
Conclusion	Disagreements reported on CET for related systems are also highly likely due to self-collision and calibration issues.
Method	The primary quantity obtained from UVA and IRF experiments is 〈〈ΔE(〈E〉)〉〉, which corresponds to a 〈ΔE(E)〉 “bulk averaged” over the normalized vibrational distribution g(E) in the ground electronic state with average energy 〈E〉: 〈〈ΔE(〈E〉)〉〉 = ∫∞0g〈E〉(E′)〈ΔE(E′)〉dE′
Method	Differences between microcanonical and the respective bulk averaged values of the first moments are however small, as long as one is sufficiently far away from thermal equilibrium.9
Method	In the discussion of the first moment results, we will therefore only apply the notation 〈ΔE〉 for both quantities.
Result	Comparisons for the bath gases argon and CO2 can be found in Figs. 1 and 2.
Result	A similar plot for the helium case was already shown in Fig. 22 of ref. 8, which also contains the Lennard-Jones collision numbers required for converting the CET rate constants into the respective moments.
Background	The first CET experiments on azulene employing the UV absorption technique were carried out by Hippler et al.7
Background	An almost energy independent 〈ΔE〉 was found for all bath gases, except for energies smaller than roughly 10 000 cm–1, where eventually 〈〈ΔE〉〉 = 0 has to be fulfilled in thermal equilibrium (〈E〉thermal = 979 cm–1 for azulene).
Background	Later, these experiments were extended to low11 and high excitation energies.12
Result	It is immediately clear from Figs. 1 and 2 and also Fig. 22 of ref. 8 that the older UVA data lie considerably higher than the KCSI values over wide energy ranges.
Background	Very recently, new high quality UVA results have been obtained for temperatures ≥373 K and excitation energies <20 000 cm–1.13
Background	The UVA decay curves showing exceptionally low noise were almost monoexponential, which results in a linear energy dependence of 〈ΔE〉 over the whole energy range, due to the fact that the calibration curve in this energy region is practically linear (Fig. 3).18
Method	For a direct comparison with the KCSI results of ref. 8 we calculated time-dependent UVA profiles from the KCSI data via: ε(t) = ∫∞0g(E,t)ε(〈E〉)dEi.e. a convolution of the g(E,t) distributions from a KCSI master equation analysis with a given UVA calibration curve ε(〈E〉) was used to reconstruct ε(t).
Method	Such profiles can be directly confronted with the experimental UVA traces.
Method	All UVA measurements for azulene rely on the empirical calibration data shown in Fig. 3.
Result	The relationship between the absorption coefficient ε and the average internal energy 〈E〉 of the azulene molecules was established from thermal experiments in heated gas cells (open circles) or shocktubes (filled circles) and measurements after laser excitation (open squares).
Result	For energies below 25 000 cm–1 the calibration curve is practically linear and can be well represented by the solid line in Fig. 3 using the expression:13
Result	At higher energies, the calibration curve levels off and there is experimental evidence that it stays constant at least up to roughly 50 000 cm–1.12
Method	To describe this behavior we modified the calibration curve given in ref. 19 by a factor of 2.2 to obtain agreement with the experimental points:
Method	Above 31 790 cm–1, a constant value of ε = 17 650 l mol–1 cm–1 was assumed, so that the experimentally observed “saturation behavior” of the absorption coefficient is correctly described (dashed line in Fig. 3).
Result	Fig. 4 shows a comparison of the most recent UVA data13 for the colliders helium, argon and CO2 with our master equation fits employing the P(E′,E) data from Table IV of .ref. 8
Method	Note that the UVA data were recorded at slightly elevated temperatures (T = 373 K) so our fits had to be rescaled by the ratio of the respective KCSI and UVA Lennard-Jones collision numbers.
Result	The overall fit to the UVA traces is very good.
Result	Despite this, there are still visible deviations in the first moment plots, see, e.g., Fig. 2 (and especially also Fig. 22 of .ref. 8)
Result	In Fig. 4(a), the decay of the helium UVA signal is slightly faster than in the KCSI fit.
Result	In Fig. 4(c), the very slight differences in the decay of the experimental and simulated UVA signals for CO2 result in the different slopes of the energy dependence of 〈ΔE〉 in Fig. 2.
Conclusion	These deviations might be either due to a slight temperature dependence of the energy transfer or remaining uncertainties in the UVA calibration curve, as demonstrated in our earlier study.9
Conclusion	The minor differences for helium can probably be explained by a small contamination of efficient azulene self-collisions in the UVA experiments.
Conclusion	Note that the experimental UVA (and IRF) traces are most susceptible to self-collision effects in the case of inefficient colliders.
Background	At this point we would like to comment on the clear deviations of 〈ΔE〉 found in older UVA measurements.
Result	The argon data of Hippler and Troe in Fig. 1 exceed the KCSI values considerably, as it is also found for other colliders.
Result	The even larger discrepancy for helium as a collider is documented as Fig. 22 in .ref. 8
Result	In Fig. 5(a) the UVA trace for azulene* + argon is shown,11 which decays clearly faster than the simulated fit (dashed curve) using the KCSI parameters from Table IV of ref. 8 employing eqn. (3) as calibration curve.13
Result	As in the helium case,8 the argon data seem to be contaminated by a visible amount of azulene self-collisions.
Method	Such a contribution of collisions with a second bath gas partner in the mixture can be modeled by adding a second term to our general P(E′,E) expression with a parametric exponent in the argument [eqn. (11) in ref. 9]:
Method	For the parameters C0, C1 and Y1 we use the optimized values from the KCSI analysis.8
Result	The experimental conditions given in ref. 11 [P(azulene)/Ptotal = 0.6%] suggest a value x = 6 × 10–3 as a reasonable estimate for the contribution of efficient azulene self-collisions.
Result	From the 〈ΔE〉 data in ref. 17 one can extrapolate that the behavior of azulene as collision partner should be very close to that of CHT.
Method	We therefore approximated the azulene parameters B0, B1 and Y2 in the small second term of eqn. (5) by using the CHT values from Table IV of .ref. 8
Result	The resulting simulation in Fig. 5(a) now shows good agreement with the original experimental trace.
Conclusion	Thus, it is strongly suggested that the UVA trace is contaminated by azulene self-collisions, which have not been considered in the extraction of the UVA 〈ΔE〉 values in .ref. 11
Result	Fig. 5(b) shows another set of UVA measurements for azulene deactivation by the collider argon from Damm et al.12
Result	Two sets of data are available for excitation at 193 and 248 nm.
Method	The 248 nm curve was shifted so that the decay of both curves coincide.
Result	Such a behavior is expected, because the UVA calibration curve appears to be essentially flat for energies above 30 000 cm–1 (Fig. 3).
Result	Therefore the signal at 193 nm excitation shows an additional constant portion at early times before showing the same decay as the 248 nm signal.
Method	Again we tried to fit the UVA traces using our KCSI parameters, but this time employing eqn. (4) (with the aforementioned constant extension at high energies), which should be valid up to excess energies around 50 000 cm–1.
Result	The results are also included in Fig. 5(b) (dashed and dotted curves).
Result	While the early part of the traces are very well reproduced, there are deviations at longer times.
Result	The UVA traces decay faster.
Result	This is consistent with the slightly higher –〈ΔE〉 at lower energies already seen in Fig. 1.
Conclusion	Again, an influence of self-collisions is very likely.
Result	In these UVA measurements the self-collision contributions were smaller [P(azulene)/Ptotal = 0.12%].
Result	Nevertheless, including a second term in our P(E′,E) to account for this (x = 1.2 × 10–3 and CHT parameters for azulene as above) leads to a simulation with better agreement (solid line).
Conclusion	One can therefore conclude that the existing body of UVA data is in full agreement with the KCSI results, and the differences observed are due to self-collisions in the older measurements and possibly remaining uncertainties in the UVA calibration curve.
Background	The issue of calibration curves was already discussed at length in our earlier publication for toluene, where the seemingly very large discrepancies between the UVA and KCSI results could be quantitatively traced back to small uncertainties in the high energy portion of the UVA calibration curve9.
Background	An extended set of time-resolved IR fluorescence measurements for azulene was obtained by Barker and co-workers.6,14
Background	These data were later reanalyzed by the same group employing an “improved calibration curve”.
Background	Their reevaluation changed the original 〈ΔE〉 by up to 50% and yielded values at the energies 〈E〉 = 13 943 and 24 023 cm–1.17
Result	The results for argon and CO2 of refs. 14 and 17 are included in Figs. 1 and 2 as dotted curves, including a linear interpolation for the reevaluated curve.
Result	Similar to the KCSI results, the IRF measurements predict a linear energy dependence of 〈ΔE〉.
Result	However, the IRF –〈ΔE〉 curves are much higher than the corresponding one from KCSI.
Method	To analyze these differences, we again take the “direct” approach by comparing our master equation results with the IRF trace for azulene + argon given in .ref. 14
Method	This is done in Fig. 6.
Background	Experimental calibration points and a calculated calibration curve relating the IRF emission intensity and the energy E of the azulene molecules were given in refs. 17 and 20.
Method	For our simulations we fitted the calibration curve by a fifth order polynomial:
Method	The time-dependent IRF simulations employing KCSI g(E,t) can then be obtained via: I(t) = ∫∞0g(E,t)I(E)dE
Method	Note that in the IRF experiments the fraction of azulene molecules was roughly 10%, and therefore much higher than in the UVA measurements discussed above.
Method	For that reason, measurements at different argon partial pressures together with a “linear mixing rule” approach had to be applied in ref. 14 to extract values for pure argon conditions.
Result	Not surprisingly, our KCSI master equation fit in Fig. 6 using eqn. (5) and the argon parameters from ref. 8 decays much slower (dashed line).
Result	However – like for the UVA data in the preceeding section – perfect agreement is obtained when taking contributions of azulene-azulene collisions into account (solid line).
Result	One can only speculate, why we obtain agreement between the IRF signal and our master equation simulation in Fig. 6, when at the same time in Fig. 1 the 〈ΔE〉 curves taken from refs. 14 and 17 show strong deviations.
Conclusion	One possible explanation might be that the “linear mixing rule” procedure employed in ref. 14 for different azulene/argon mixing ratios introduces considerable uncertainties when extrapolating to pure argon conditions, greatly affecting the accuracy of the 〈ΔE〉 curves.
Result	We have demonstrated that the body of considerably varying data on 〈ΔE〉 in azulene reported in the literature is in an astonishing complete agreement with the more recent “self-calibrating” KCSI data8 if reanalyzed properly.
Background	Analogous findings have been reported earlier for the CET of toluene.9
Conclusion	Together this indicates that a recommended preference of the precision 〈ΔE〉 data from KCSI marks a decisive step in defining strict, low error boundary conditions for the application in chemical reaction kinetics.
Conclusion	Deviations and spread in reported 〈ΔE〉 values from UVA and IRF reported in earlier studies (see Figs. 1 and 2 and ref. 8) are most probably due to the following two systematic errors in the UVA and IRF experiments, namely (1) contributions of efficient azulene self-collisions which were not correctly accounted for and (2) unavoidable uncertainties in the UVA and IRF calibration curves.
Conclusion	The second point can have drastic effects, as we have already shown in detail for toluene in .ref. 9
Conclusion	We believe that similar deviations between the results of different CET methods for other systems are mainly due to the same two effects.
Conclusion	The following advice for using large molecule CET data for kinetic applications can therefore be given: If available, KCSI data should be used, as they have the highest accuracy and can be – like in the azulene case presented here and in ref. 8 – independent of any external calibration.
Conclusion	Simply taking an average of several available measurements from different sources cannot be recommended in the light of the above discussion.
Conclusion	Experiments using high partial pressures of the parent molecule should be checked for the contribution of self-collisions, and corrected accordingly.
Conclusion	If possible, one should also assess the accuracy of the calibration curves used, as this can introduce a substantial source of error.

Problem	Possible induced enhancement of dispersion forces by cellular phones
Problem	We derive the dispersion forces between objects in the presence of a non-thermal radiation field.
Method	We apply the formalism to a model system representing two human blood cells in blood.
Result	By focusing the same radiation density, as in room-temperature thermal radiation, in the microwave region we find a huge enhancement of the attractive force.
Result	Related effects are predicted to occur also in other types of biological tissue.
Background	The quantitative results should not be taken at face value, since the model is crude.
Result	The effects are so large though, that further investigation is motivated.
Conclusion	The origin of the effects lies in the variation of water and/or ion content.
Conclusion	In the microwave region of the spectrum both the dipolar contributions from the water-molecules, and the mobile-ion contributions are important parts of the dielectric function, and cause the enhancement.
Background	The dispersion forces between two objects can be expressed in terms of the electromagnetic normal modes of the system.1
Background	These forces are van der Waals forces2 at intermediate separation and Casimir forces3,4 at large separations.
Background	We know how the forces behave at zero and finite temperatures but we do not fully understand the behavior in non-equilibrium situations.
Background	It is a well-known fact that gradients of optical fields can produce forces on microscopic dielectric objects.5
Background	This effect is utilized in so-called optical tweezers.6
Background	Optical binding between two dielectric objects in the presence of a strong optical field was discussed and demonstrated by Burns et al.7
Background	Other related studies have been performed investigating the van der Waals force involving excited state atoms.8–10
Background	The work by Burns et al. is an example of virtual excitations of the normal modes; the other studies involve real electronic excitations within one of the two interacting objects, not excitations of the normal modes.
Problem	In the present work11 we study the effects of real excitations of the normal modes of the system.
Background	Thus the present work complements the previous studies.
Background	The outline of the article is the following.
Method	In section II we derive the force between two objects at zero temperature in terms of the electromagnetic normal modes; in this case the modes are not occupied.
Method	In section III we extend the derivation to finite temperatures where the modes are in equilibrium with the thermal radiation field; in this case the modes are occupied according to the distribution function for mass-less bosons at the given temperature.
Method	In section IV we use a Lorentzian distribution function.
Method	In section V we concentrate on spherical objects.
Method	In section VI we let the Lorentzian distribution function be peaked in the microwave region and apply the theory to the force between two water drops, between two air bubbles in water and finally between two human blood cells in blood.
Background	Section VII is a summary and conclusion section.
Method	At zero temperature the force, fo(r), between two objects as a function of separation, r, is given by the derivative of the energy, E: where the energy is the sum of the zero-point energies of the modes,
Method	The modes are of two types: one type is localized to the surfaces of the objects and gives rise to the van der Waals interaction; one type extends between the objects and gives rise to the Casimir interaction (see ref. 1).
Method	In a simple system with a small number of well-defined modes this summation can be performed directly.
Background	In the general case this is not so.
Method	Then we can rely on an extension of the so-called argument principle to find the results.
Problem	Let us study a region in the complex frequency plane.
Method	We have two functions defined in this region; one, φ(z), is analytic in the whole region; one, f(z), has poles and zeros inside the region.
Method	The following relation holds for an integration path around the region: where z0 and z∞ are the zeros and poles, respectively, of function f(z).
Method	In the argument principle the function φ is replaced by unity and the right hand side then equals the number of zeros minus the number of poles for function f(z) inside the integration path.
Method	If we choose the function f(z) to be the function in the defining equation for the normal modes of the system,f(ωi) = 0,the function φ (z) to beand let the contour enclose all the zeros of the function f(z), eqn. (3) produces the energy of eqn. (2).
Result	Using this theorem we end up integrating along a closed contour in the complex frequency plane.
Result	In most cases it is fruitful to choose the contour shown in Fig. 1.
Method	We have the freedom to multiply the function f (z) by an arbitrary constant without changing the result on the right hand side of eqn. (3).
Method	If we choose it carefully we can make the contribution from the curved part of the contour vanish and we are only left with an integration along the imaginary frequency axis: where the last line was obtained from an integration by parts.
Background	This needs some clarification.
Method	The function f(z) contains polarizabilities or other time-correlation functions representing the response of the system one is treating.
Result	These functions approach zero as the argument goes towards infinity since there is an upper limit for the frequency the system can respond to.
Result	Consequently f(z) approaches a constant and after we have rescaled the function it approaches unity and the value of the logarithm approaches zero.
Method	One further property of f(z) we should mention is that on the imaginary axis it is an even function of its argument; this is a general property of the time-correlation functions contained in f(z).
Background	We will refer to this property below.
Method	The contribution to the internal energy from the interaction between two objects separated by the distance r can in general be written as:where the index i runs over all electromagnetic modes of the system and ni and εi are the occupation number and energy, respectively, of the mode number i.
Method	Let us now concentrate on one of the modes and omit the indexNote that the occupation number n(r) is a function of energy or frequency and becomes a function of r because the mode energy depends on r.
Method	An infinitesimal change in r modifies E both because of the change in mode energy and because of the change in occupation number The first term is due to mechanical work and the second to heat exchange with the surroundings.
Method	The free energy Θ = E − Φ is the quantity that determines the force.
Method	Let us now determine Φ and Θ where on the last line we have omitted the constant.
Method	The energy functions are relative to some arbitrary reference level.
Method	We usually choose this to be the value at infinite separation.
Method	Thus the free energy is where on the last line we have identified the result as the Helmholtz free energy.
Method	The force is
Method	This was the contribution from one of the modes.
Method	The total contribution to the Helmholtz free energy is We make the observation that we may use the argument principle but now with ln[2sinh(βħz/2)]/β instead of ħz/2 for φ(z) in the integrand.
Background	There is however one complication.
Method	This new function has poles of its own in the complex frequency plane.
Method	We have to choose our contour so that it includes all poles and zeros of the function f(z) but excludes those of φ(z).
Method	The poles of function φ(z) all are on the imaginary frequency axis.
Method	We use the same contour as in Fig. 1., but now let the straight part of the contour lie just to the right of, and infinitesimally close to, the imaginary axis.
Method	We have The coth function has poles on the imaginary z-axis and they should not be inside the contour.
Method	The poles are at and all residues are the same, equal to 2/ħβ.
Method	We integrate along the imaginary axis and deform the path along small semicircles around each pole.
Result	The integration path is illustrated in Fig. 2.
Method	The integration along the axis results in zero since the integrand is odd with respect to ω.
Result	The only surviving contributions are the ones from the small semicircles.
Result	The result is Since the summand is even in n (see comment at the end of Section II) we can write this as where the prime on the summation sign indicates that the n = 0 term should be multiplied by a factor of one half.
Result	This factor of one half is because there is only one term with |n| = 0 in the original summation but two for all other integers.
Method	When the temperature goes to zero the spacing between the discrete frequencies goes to zero and the summation may be replaced by an integration: and we regain the contribution to the internal energy from the interactions, the change in zero-point energy of the modes, as given in eqn. (6).
Background	In the absence of thermal equilibrium the occupation numbers are different from the Bose–Einstein ones for mass-less bosons and the summation along the imaginary frequency axis will no longer be the same.
Background	The summation points came from the poles of the distribution function.
Problem	We want a narrow distribution function that is peaked in the microwave region of the spectrum where the cellular phones operate.
Problem	We want a distribution function that is peaked in a narrow energy range and has poles that give rise to feasible calculations.
Background	A Gaussian distribution function would seem like a good candidate but it does not fulfil these criteria; it has an infinite number of poles on the imaginary axis.
Method	We instead choose a Lorentzian distribution function.
Method	Let us now specify our choice of n(ω): n(ω) = iA[(ω − ω0 + iB)−1 − (ω − ω0 − iB)−1 + (ω + ω0 + iB)−1 − (ω + ω0 − iB)−1]This function is real-valued on the real frequency axis and is a sum of two Lorentzian functions.
Method	This function has the proper analytic properties and symmetries of a distribution function.
Method	The energy or frequency where the distribution is focused is given by ω0 and the width of the distribution by B.
Method	The function has two poles in the right half plane; it is an even analytic function on the imaginary frequency axis.
Method	Our integration contour will now consist of the contour in Fig. 1., and two small circles clockwise around the two poles of the distribution function.
Problem	The integrand will be derived next.
Method	Using eqns. (7), (10) and (11) gives
Method	We first assume that we have an explicit expression for the second term of the free energy:
Method	Then we may write: and we may use the argument principle again and get one contribution from the integration along the contour of Fig. 1. and one from the contribution of the small circles around the poles of the distribution function: Θ(r) = Θ1(r) + Θ2(r), and Θ2(r) = iħA[ln f(ω0 − iB) − ln f(ω0 + iB)]Thus in eqn. (24) we have a similar expression to that for the equilibrium case for T = 0 in eqn. (6), but now with a factor n + 1/2 instead of just 1/2.
Result	Note that the occupation number is evaluated on the imaginary frequency axis.
Problem	We will now limit the treatment to the interaction between two spherical objects at large and intermediate separations where the dipole-dipole interaction is dominant.
Method	We limit the treatment to the van der Waals region.
Method	Then the mode defining function is (see ref. 1)f(z) = [1 − α1(z)α2(z)/r6]2[1 − 4α1(z)α2(z)/r6]and the free energy is
Method	In eqns. (27) and (28) we have expanded the logarithm for small arguments.
Method	Now the polarizability for the spherical object i in some ambient medium, a, is where Ri is the radius of the object and εa(ω) the dielectric function of the ambient medium.
Problem	We now apply the theory to some systems where the objects have a water content differing from that of the ambient medium.
Background	Water is strongly active in the microwave region due to the permanent dipole moments of the water molecule.
Background	This property is the basis of the microwave oven.
Background	The field induces rotations of the molecules.
Background	The rotational energy is transformed into heat, due to the internal friction of water.
Problem	We study two water drops, two air bubbles in water, and two blood cells in blood.
Background	The dielectric properties of water have been studied extensively and are available in the literature.12
Method	We need these data both on the imaginary frequency axis for eqn. (27) and at general points of the complex frequency plane for eqn. (28).
Method	The measured values are of course on the real frequency axis.
Method	The values on the imaginary axis can be obtained from the knowledge of the imaginary part, ε2(ω) on the real frequency axis from a generalization of the Kramers–Kronig dispersion relations, derived from general properties of analytical functions.
Method	The relation is For a general point, ω = a + ib, in the complex frequency plane the relations for the real part ε1 (ω) and imaginary part, ε2(ω), are
Method	In the case of water drops the dielectric function for the ambient medium in eqn. (29) is unity and εi(ω) is the dielectric function of water.
Method	Note that the index i here runs over the two drops and does not represent real and imaginary parts.
Method	In the case of air bubbles in water the ambient dielectric function is that of water and εi(ω) is unity.
Result	The results for two water drops are shown in Fig. 3 and the corresponding results for two bubbles in water are shown in Fig. 4.
Problem	In this work the main objective is the force between two human red blood cells in blood.
Background	To be able to perform a reliable, quantitative, calculation of the effects on the force between objects one needs to know the dielectric function in the full spectral range, both for the objects and for the ambient medium.
Background	Since the information we have is limited we are restricted to rather crude model calculations.
Background	The dielectric properties of blood in the range of 10 Hz to 100 GHz are known.13
Background	The data for red blood cells14 are sparser, though.
Method	We model the cell as a spherical object of radius R enclosed by a membrane; the radius of a human red blood cell is 4.5 μm and the thickness of the cell membrane is 8 nm.
Method	We assume that the membrane has the same dielectric parameters as the cell membrane of a white blood cell of B-type.15
Result	The interior is treated as homogeneous and we adjust the water and ion content of the cytoplasm so that the real and imaginary parts of the dielectric function for the cell agree with the few available, measured values;14 we end up with a water content of 75% and obtain the value 0.525 S m−1 for the conductivity from the ions; these values seem reasonable.
Conclusion	We should be more specific with the dielectric functions used for the blood and blood cells.
Method	For the blood we use the expression in eqn. (4) of .ref. 13
Method	It is valid for frequencies up to 100 GHz and consists of four terms; the first is the high-frequency asymptote; the second is the rotational contribution from water molecules; the third is the rotational contribution from larger entities; the fourth is the contribution from all mobile ions.
Background	The authors of ref. 13 adjusted the eight parameters to give a good fit to the experimental data.
Background	The red blood cell consists of a membrane enclosing the cytoplasm.
Background	We thus need the dielectric properties of these two materials.
Method	Here we use just two of the terms discussed above, the first and the fourth, just as in eqn. (3) of ref. 15 with parameter values given in that reference.
Method	For the cytoplasm we keep in principle the first, second and fourth terms.
Method	The two first terms we replace by 1 + F[εw(ω) − 1], where F is the fraction of water and εw(ω) is the dielectric function of water.
Method	This gives us two parameters to vary, viz., F and the parameter of the fourth term of the dielectric function, the static conductivity of the mobile ions.
Method	The effective dielectric function of the blood cell we determine along the lines of eqns. (4)–(6) of ref. 15, where we remove the effects from the nucleus.
Background	The red blood cells have no nucleus.
Method	We then vary the two parameters, to get a good fit to the experimental imaginary and real parts of the dielectric function of a red blood cell.
Result	The fit is seen in Fig. 5.
Background	We have probably got good enough estimates of the dielectric properties of blood and cells for the spectral range up to 100 GHz, but we need the properties also for higher frequencies.
Background	We lack this information.
Background	We know the dielectric function of water16 in the whole spectral range.
Background	The most characteristic feature of this dielectric function is the large contribution from Debye1,17 rotational relaxation in the microwave region.
Method	We model the dielectric function of the cell and of blood by letting them be equal to the function for water for high frequencies.
Result	The functions used are displayed in Fig. 5.
Result	The solid, dashed and dotted curves are the imaginary parts of the dielectric function for the cell, for blood and for water, respectively.
Background	The circles are the experimental values for the cell from .ref. 14
Result	The short piece of solid curve is our real part of the dielectric function for the cell compared to the experimental values from ref. 14, indicated by the squares.
Result	The energy density at the surface of a black-body radiator at 300 K is approximately 6 × 10−6 J m−3.
Result	The corresponding radiative power is 46 mW cm−2.
Method	We choose a Lorentzian function peaked at the photon energy 3.5 × 10−6 eV and with a FWHM of 5% of the peak energy.
Result	The results are found to be insensitive to the peak width.
Method	We have let the strength of the distribution be such that the energy density in the radiation field is 1 × 10−6 J m−3.
Result	The corresponding radiative power is 7.5 mW cm−2.
Background	Thus we have chosen a slightly weaker radiation than that of the black-body radiator.
Result	The numerical values used for ω0, B and A are 5.32 × 109 s−1, 1.33 × 108 s−1 and 2.95 × 1024 s−1, respectively.
Result	In Fig. 6 we show the result, the upper solid curve, for the interaction potential in the microwave field.
Result	For comparison we have included the room temperature result, middle curve, and one in the absence of radiation, lower curve.
Result	To give the reader a feeling for the strength of the potential we have added two reference potentials: The first is the dash-dotted curve.
Result	It is the unscreened potential between two unit charges; in a colloid the particles become charged and typically attain a charge of the order of 100 unit charges, but the resulting repulsive potential between the particles becomes screened by the counterions in the solution and the net potential is strongly reduced and also short range.
Result	Thus, a comparison between the repulsive Coulomb potential and the attractive dispersion potential, induced by the microwave field, should be made towards the left in the figure.
Result	The second reference potential is the short horizontal line in the figure.
Result	It represents the energy 6kBT for room temperature.
Result	This number is an estimate used to determine if a potential barrier is large enough to prevent the particles from overcoming it through the Brownian motion.
Method	The force between the cells is obtained by taking the derivative of the potential with respect to separation.
Result	Doing this we find that the force ranges from 0.15 μN at the small-separation end of the figure to 1.5 zN at the large-separation end.
Conclusion	The potential and force resulting from the microwave radiation can not be considered negligible in comparison with other forces experienced by the blood cells.
Result	The lowest curve in the figure is the result without radiation.
Result	This potential comes entirely from the zero-point energy of the normal modes.
Background	It is only of academic interest since it corresponds to absolute zero temperature.
Background	The thermal radiation enhances the interaction.
Result	At room temperature the radiation causes an enhancement of the potential and force at intermediate separations of several orders of magnitude.
Result	The enhancement at microwave radiation is much more impressive.
Result	It gives an additional enhancement of ten orders of magnitude.
Result	The photon energy where the microwave radiation is concentrated is indicated by a bar at the bottom of Fig. 5.
Result	We see that the energy or frequency is here low enough for the mobile ions to contribute to the screening.
Result	The ion contribution is of the Drude-tail type and varies as ω−1.
Result	The enhancement of the force in the microwave region is probably due to both ion contributions and contributions from rotations of the water molecules.
Result	In the calculations for water drops and for bubbles in water we found strong enhancement of the force but not as strong as the result in Fig. 6.
Result	In these two cases the ion contributions are absent but the rotational contributions are stronger and there are contributions from the whole spectral range including the infrared and ultraviolet regions.
Problem	To summarize, we have gone beyond the approximation of treating cellular phones as black-body radiators, which is usually done in setting the radiation standards.
Method	We have focused the radiation power to a peak in the microwave region.
Problem	We have studied the effect of this radiation on the attractive part of the force between two blood cells in blood using a simplified model for the dielectric properties of the system.
Result	We found an enhancement of the force by ten orders of magnitude when changing the radiation spectrum from thermal to one that is peaked in the microwave region.
Conclusion	Since the results depend on the water and ion content in the blood and blood cells and since these vary between individuals and also depend on the person's health status the effects can vary from person to person.
Conclusion	Another possible result from the radiation could be that thin blood vessels contract and thereby limit the flow of blood through them; the surface energy of the blood vessel might increase drastically making a contraction energetically favorable.
Conclusion	Still other unwanted effects could be growth of precipitates in tissue and organs, in the eye for example.
Conclusion	At this stage it is only speculation.
Background	A word of caution: The present work should not be considered as a proof of that cellular phones are harmful.
Background	It shows that there may be effects not considered before.
Result	The weakness of the model calculations lies in the incomplete input data for the dielectric properties of biological tissue and in the description of the radiation field.
Background	We have not taken into account that the field may be polarized; in a polarized field the forces between the two cells also depend on their relative orientation with respect to the polarization direction; the force may be repulsive for some orientations and even more strongly attractive for others.
Background	In general, the force induced by a radiation field has attractive and repulsive contributions from different parts of the spectral range.
Result	The origin of the enhancement, we have found, for the interaction between the cells is that the energy density in the radiation field has been concentrated in a spectral range where the contributions are attractive.
Result	The result is not sensitive to the particular choice of distribution as long as it is peaked at the same spectral position.
Method	We have used a Lorentzian distribution function because it has only two poles in the right half of the complex frequency plane, giving rise to the two terms in eqn. (28).
Method	The Bose–Einstein distribution function for thermal radiation has an infinite number of poles giving rise to the infinite number of terms in eqn. (17).
Background	Had we used a Gaussian distribution function we would also have ended up with an infinite number of terms.
Background	The final result would have been similar but the mathematics more cumbersome and the treatment less transparent.
Conclusion	Hopefully this study will stimulate efforts to measure the dielectric properties of all components in biological tissue over the full spectral range, making more realistic studies feasible.

Problem	Voltammetry of immobilised microdroplets containing p-chloranil on basal plane pyrolytic graphite electrodes
Problem	The electron transfer properties of p-chloranil (2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone, TCBQ) were investigated in both homogeneous and heterogeneous media.
Result	For the homogeneous study, the electrochemical reduction of TCBQ was carried out in different aprotic solvents (namely: benzonitrile (BN), N,N,dimethylformamide (DMF), propylcyanide (PrCN) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)) and revealed two successive one-electron reductions according to a quasi-reversible EE mechanism.
Method	For the heterogeneous study, cyclic voltammetry with basal plane pyrolytic graphite electrodes modified with microdroplets of benzonitrile/TCBQ was employed.
Result	The droplets were found to be randomly dispersed with a degree of overlapping and average diameters of 5 μm giving the microdroplets individual volumes of ca.
Result	33 fL.
Conclusion	The redox processes within the electrically insulating microdroplets were shown to be very sensitive to the nature and concentration of ions in the surrounding aqueous phase as, in order to retain electroneutrality within the unsupported oil phase, electric field-induced migration of ions likely occurs during the Faradaic current flow.
Conclusion	Depending on the lipophilicity of the aqueous electrolyte cation uptake into or electrochemical generated anion expulsion from the organic phase containing the electroactive specie TCBQ was induced electrochemically.
Result	Alkali metal cation uptake into the microdroplet environment was not observed.
Result	However less hydrophilic tetraalkylammonium cations NR4+ (R+ = Bu and Pe) inserted.
Conclusion	Proton insertion into the oil phase was also shown to occur as the current|voltage shifted to more positive potentials, making the reductive process more facile, as the pH of the buffer solution was decreased.
Conclusion	The higher efficiency of proton insertion as compared with Group I cations insertion was explained in terms of the formation of strong O–H covalent bonds which outweighs the ion phase transfer thermodynamics.
Method	Finally, the cross-phase electron transfer across the benzonitrile|water interface was examined when the TCBQ microdroplets were purposely made conductive by addition of a hydrophobic, nonpartitioning electrolyte in the oil phase.
Conclusion	Again, the resulted voltammetry was found to change depending on the identity and concentration of the salt dissolved in the surrounding aqueous environment.
Background	The investigation of electrochemically driven ion-transfer processes across liquid|liquid interfaces has been shown to be of fundamental interest1–21 as well as of interest for specific ion sensing in aqueous media22,23 and for the replication of redox chemistry occurring in both chemical (i.e., aqueous emulsion system, etc.) and natural systems.24–27
Background	Several studies which deal with electrodes modified with microdroplets of water-immiscible compounds have been reported and we refer the reader to a review article recently published in this journal28 for a more thorough description of the techniques used and the results obtained by different authors.
Background	Based on the seminal work of Marken et al2–4. our group has, in the past six years, investigated the voltammetric processes of random arrays of unsupported electroactive microdroplets which are deposited on the surface of a basal plane pyrolytic graphite electrode (bppg) via solvent evaporation of a solution of the electroactive oil.12–16,25,28
Background	This approach has provided a simple methodology to interrogate the electrochemistry at the liquid|liquid interface of several compounds that cannot be studied homogeneously in aqueous media due to their low solubility.
Background	Initial work was mainly focused on organic hydrophobic oils containing a phenylenediamine backbone,12–16,29 although recently the biphasic redox chemistry of n-butylferrocene,16 4-nitrophenylnonylether,25 vitamin K126 and vitamin E27 in the form of microdroplets has also been explored.
Method	The voltammetry associated with microdroplets has been shown to be very sensitive to the nature and concentration of ions in the surrounding aqueous phase as, in order to preserve charge neutrality within the unsupported microdroplets oil environment, ion insertion into or expulsion from the oil phase must take place during the Faradaic current flow.
Background	When the transfer of the aqueous-based counterion from aqueous solutions into the oil droplet is thermodynamically more favourable than the transfer of the electrogenerated ion into the aqueous phase, electrochemically induced ion insertion leading to the formation of a novel ionic liquid was shown to occur at the triple phase boundary of electrode|oil|aqueous electrolyte.3,4,30
Background	However, when the transfer of the aqueous based counterion into the organic deposit is energetically unfavourable, expulsion of the electrogenerated charge species into the adjacent aqueous phase was observed.
Background	Dissolution processes of this sort have shown to take place at the liquid|liquid interface.30
Background	Finally, reactive chemistry between the electrogenerated and the inserted ions was also shown to occur on some occasions.30
Background	The research presented in this paper falls into two section.
Method	In the first part, the well-documented electrochemical reduction31–35 of a hydrophobic benzoquinone derivative, p-chloranil (2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone, TCBQ), will be examined in homogeneous solutions of various aprotic solvents (namely: benzonitrile (BN), N,N,dimethylformamide (DMF), propylcyanide (PrCN) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO)).
Method	In the second part, the redox chemistry of TCBQ will be further explored in the form of TCBQ/BN microdroplets immobilized at a bppg electrode surface immersed in various electrolyte solutions.
Background	The literature has many examples of anion insertion,2,12,14–16,22,23,28,30,36 however, much fewer examples of cation insertion have, so far, been reported.11,25
Conclusion	It will be shown that, depending on the lipophilicity of the cation present in the aqueous phase, cation uptake into, or anion expulsion from, the organic deposit can take place to restore the electroneutrality within the microdroplet environment.
Problem	Protonation across the liquid|liquid interface and the effect of the addition of a supporting electrolyte in the oil phase will also be examined.
Method	Aqueous electrolyte solutions have been prepared with KCl (Riedel–de Haen,), LiCl, RbCl, tetramethylammonium chloride, (TMeACl) tetrapropylammonium chloride, (TPrACl) tetrabutylammonium bromide (TBuABr), tetrabutylammonium nitrate (TBuANO3), (all Aldrich), and tetrabutylammonium chloride, (TBuACl) (Fluka).
Method	All these reagents were of the highest grade available and used without further purification.
Method	The solutions and subsequent dilutions were carried out using deionised water from an Elgastat (Elga, UK) UHQ grade water system with a resistivity of not less than 18 MΩ cm.
Method	The electrochemical reduction of p-chloranil (2,3,5,6-tetrachloro-1,4-benzoquinone, TCBQ, Aldrich, 99%) was investigated in the aprotic solvents benzonitrile (BN), N,N,dimethylformamide (DMF), propylcyanide (PrCN) (all Aldrich) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO, BDH).
Method	Tetrabutylammonium perchlorate (TBuAP, Fluka) was used as supporting electrolyte at 0.1 M concentration.
Method	For the deposition procedure followed for the microdroplets study (see 2.3, Procedure), acetonitrile (MeCN) (Fisher Scientific, dried and distilled) was used without further purification.
Method	Buffered solutions were prepared using 0.05 M Na2HPO4/NaH2PO4, 0.1M NaH2PO4 and 0.1M boric acid solutions, and adjusted to the required pH using NaOH (all Aldrich).
Method	Potassium hexacyanoferrate(ii) trihydrate (99%) was purchased from Lancaster.
Method	Solutions were deoxygenated by outgassing with oxygen-free nitrogen (BOC Gases, Guildford, Surrey, UK) for at least 15 min prior experimentation and a nitrogen atmosphere was maintained over the solutions during each experimental run.
Method	All experiments were carried out at room temperature of 20 ± 2°C.
Method	All electrochemical measurements were recorded using a PG STAT 20 computer controlled potentiostat (Eco-Chemie, Netherlands) with a standard three electrode configuration.
Method	For the homogeneous electrochemistry section, a glassy carbon (GC, 3 mm diameter, BAS Technicol, UK) or a bare basal plane pyrolytic graphite (bppg, 5 mm diameter, Le Carbone Ltd., Sussex, UK) electrode acted as working electrode, a platinum wire wound into a spiral provided the counter electrode and a platinum pseudo-reference electrode completed the cell assembly.
Method	The glassy carbon electrodes were mechanically polished between each set of experiments with diamond paste (Kemet, UK) of decreasing particle size (15 to 1 μm) and rinsed thoroughly before use.
Method	For the microdroplets study, the bppg electrode (vide supra) was used as working electrode with a platinum wire wound into a spiral (counter electrode) and a saturated calomel reference electrode (SCE, Hg/Hg2Cl2, Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark).
Method	All potentials are quoted with respect to the SCE, unless otherwise specified.
Background	Several methods in which the surface of a bppg electrode can be modified with oil droplets containing an electroactive compound have been reported.28
Method	In the present study, we investigated droplets of the electroactive hydrophobic yellow material TCBQ.
Method	An inert organic liquid was required to dissolve the solid TCBQ and benzonitrile (BN) was chosen as it was found to be electrochemically inert in the potential window of interest.
Method	The bppg working electrode was modified with microdroplets of TCBQ dissolved in BN by solvent evaporation of a volatile solvent (MeCN) from an aliquot (typically 5 μL) of TCBQ/BN stock solution of accurately known concentration that had been pipetted onto the electrode surface prior the immersion in aqueous solution.
Method	The concentration of TCBQ in the BN oil phase was ca. 35 mM (ca. 1 nmol of TCBQ in a typical volume of 2.7 × 10−8 L of BN).
Method	This technique of depositing the organic phase containing the electroactive species in the form of microdroplets rather than a continuous film11 gives the opportunity to omit supporting electrolytes in the organic phase as, due to the presence of the contact lines, electrode|BN|water, charge compensation during electrochemical reduction or oxidation can always be provided at the three-phase boundary.12
Method	However, a study of the behaviour of supported microdroplets was also conducted by preparing stock TCBQ/BN in MeCN solution containing the required amount of TBuAP so that the concentration of TBuAP in the microdroplets was either 0.1, 1 or 2 M (see Section 3.2.4).
Background	In order to obtain reproducible results, careful bppg electrode preparation was found to be important.
Method	The bppg electrode was cleaned prior to each scan by rinsing with MeCN and water, and the surface was renewed by polishing on carborundum paper (P1000 grade, Acton and Bormans, Stevenage, UK) prior to each experimental run.
Method	All the experiments were undertaken as soon as possible after immersion of the modified bppg electrode into the aqueous phase.
Method	The voltammetric response of microdroplet partially blocked electrodes was simulated using the same method described in reference.14
Method	Simulations for naked electrodes were carried out with DigiSim 3.0©,37 a commercially available computer code, distributed by Bioanalytical systems (2701 Kent Ave., West Lafayette, IN 47906).
Method	First, we investigated the voltammetric reduction of TCBQ in a homogeneous solution of benzonitrile (BN) containing 0.1 M TBuAP as supporting electrolyte at a GC (3 mm diameter) electrode.
Method	The corresponding cyclic voltammetric responses obtained at increasing scan rates (from 0.1 to 1 V s−1) for the reduction of 1 mM TCBQ in BN are shown in Fig. 1a and the potential data are summarised in Table 1.
Result	Two well-separated one-electron reduction processes were observed at −0.273 V (vs.
Result	Pt) and −1.069 V (vs.
Result	Pt), respectively.
Result	These can be attributed to the formation of the radical anion, TCBQ−˙, which can be further reduced in a second one-electron transfer to the dianion, TCBQ2−.
Background	The latter is re-oxidizable in two successive one-electron transfers up to the quinone state.
Result	Therefore, the reduction mechanism can be denoted as a quasi-reversible process as expressed by the reactions:The ratios of the forward and backward peak heights of both signals were ≈1 corroborating the formation of a stable radical anion capable of undergoing further reduction and then re-oxidation to the parent.
Result	Both the reduction and re-oxidation peaks currents of both couples were found to increase with scan rate and a plot of the reduction current peaks (Ipr1and Ipr2) against the square root of scan rate,ν1/2, (insert plot Fig. 1a) was found to be linear suggesting diffusion-controlled processes.
Result	The peak potentials were found to be slightly dependent on the scan rate.
Result	With increasing scan rate, the first and the second reduction peaks (Epr1and Epr2) were shifted toward more negative potentials.
Result	In contrast, the first and the second re-oxidation peaks (Epo1and Epo2) moved towards more positive potentials.
Result	As a consequence, the potential separation ΔEp (=Ep°−Epr) increased with increasing scan rate (see Table 1), consistent with quasi-reversible behaviour.
Result	Analysis of the peak currents using the Randles–Sevčik equation and the peak-to-peak separation data using Nicholson’s treatment38 yielded a value for the diffusion coefficient, D, of the radical anion TCBQ−˙ in BN of D = 3.6 × 10−6 ± 0.2 cm2 s−1.
Result	The reduction of TCBQ was also studied at a bppg electrode (5 mm diameter) and the corresponding voltammograms obtained at increasing scan rate (0.1, 0.2, 05, 0.8 and 1 V s−1) are shown in Fig. 1b and the potential data are summarised in Table 2.
Result	Similar to that seen at the GC electrode, the electrochemical reduction of TCBQ revealed two successive one-electron transfer according to a quasi-reversible EE mechanism.
Result	However, ΔEp at bppg electrode was larger than ΔEp obtained at the GC electrode (Tables 1 and 2) suggesting more sluggish electron transfer kinetics operate at a bppg electrode as compared to a GC electrode.
Result	Furthermore, ΔEp2 was found to be slightly larger than ΔEp1 (Table 2) suggesting that the second electron transfer step is slower than the first one at a bppg electrode.
Method	The electrochemical reduction of TCBQ was also carried out in other aprotic solvents, namely DMF, DMSO and PrCN in the presence of 0.1 M TBuAP as supporting electrolyte.
Result	The corresponding voltammograms are depicted in Fig. S1 of the electronic supplementary information (ESI) and reveal a quasi-reversible EE mechanism similarly to that seen with BN as solvent.
Background	Solvent effects are also discussed in the ESI.
Method	The study of the redox chemistry of TCBQ was extended and its electron transfer properties were investigated at the liquid|liquid interface via immobilisation of electrically insulating microdroplets of TCBQ at a bppg electrode surface as described in the experimental section.
Method	First, the average size of the microdroplets deposited on a bppg electrode surface was determined using a cyclic voltammetric method recently developed by our group.14
Method	For a particular redox couple, by measuring the decrease in peak current when the electrode is modified with inert microdroplets compared to when the electrode is naked, we can obtain an estimate of the microdroplet size and total coverage of the electrode surface.14
Result	Fig. 2 illustrates cyclic voltammograms recorded at 0.2 V s−1 with a 5.0 mm diameter bppg electrode in 1.5 mM ferrocyanide/0.1 M KCl solution where the electrode is (a) naked and (b) partially covered with 2.7 × 10−5 cm3 of benzonitrile, corresponding to 10 μL of 26 mM benzonitrile (BN) in acetonitrile (MeCN).
Result	The voltammogram for the modified electrode shows a clear decrease in peak current, Ip, and increase in peak to peak separation, ΔEp, when compared to the response of the naked electrode.
Background	Both observations are consistent with an inertly blocked surface indicating the microdroplets are inert in this particular medium and potential window.
Result	Analysis of the naked electrode data (for a range of scan rates) with DigiSim 3.0© gave D = 6.5 × 10−6 cm2 s−1 and k0 = 0.01 cm s−1 for the Fe(CN)64−/Fe(CN)63− redox couple, which agrees well with that determined previously for carbon electrodes.39
Method	We can model the microdroplet partially blocked electrode surface as a random array of overlapping hemispheres of the same radius.14
Method	This is based on the experimental observation that at low surface coverage when microdroplets are well spaced, their distribution is approximately monodisperse, whereas at high surface coverage there is a larger range of droplet radii.14
Method	Using the method described in ref. 14 we can simulate the dependence of peak current with droplet radii for a range of scan rates.
Result	This is illustrated in Fig. 3 for the modified electrode discussed above at scan rates of 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 V s−1.
Result	Overlaid as dashed horizontal lines are the experimental peak currents recorded at each scan rate.
Result	The points where the dashed and solid lines cross are highlighted in the figure and represent the best agreement between theory and experiment.
Result	As observed, the results suggest an average droplet radius of 2.5 μm (experiments where the benzonitrile droplets contained 0.1 M TBuAP gave a similar result).
Method	Fig. 4 illustrates a 100 × 100 μm section of the corresponding model electrode surface that best fits the experimental results, i.e. where the droplet radius is 2.5 μm.
Method	It should be noted that Fig. 4 corresponds to how the model perceives the electrode surface.
Method	In reality, overlapping droplets would coalesce, forming larger droplets of different radii.
Method	Our approach to modelling random arrays of droplets ignores the resulting geometry from hemisphere/droplet overlap allowing us to treat the surface as a random array of overlapping discs, which is far easier to simulate the voltammetry of.14
Background	Indeed, inclusion of droplet coalescence in the modelling process would result in a problem requiring far more computation time.
Background	For this particular block volume there is a large amount of overlap resulting in a wide range of observable droplet radii.
Result	We can calculate the fraction of the uncovered electrode area to be Θ = (uncovered electrode area)/(total electrode area) = 0.44.
Result	Note that only 44% of the electrode is available for the electrochemical redox reaction yet the peak current of the modified electrode greatly exceeds 44% of that for the naked electrode.
Conclusion	Thus for redox reactions of this type, the uncovered surface area of the microdroplet modified electrode behaves more like an array of microelectrodes than a macro electrode of the same total area.
Background	In this section we discuss the voltammetric processes that occur at a bppg electrode (5 mm diameter) covered with a random arrays of purposely unsupported electroactive microdroplets of TCBQ dissolved in BN (formed as described in 2.3 Procedure) and immersed into an aqueous electrolyte where the droplet organic phase in insoluble and in which the SCE reference and the Pt counter electrodes are placed.
Method	In these experiments TCBQ is reduced to the respective anion radical TCBQ−˙.
Background	Hence the electroneutrality of the oil environment can be retained by either the uptake of a cation from the aqueous phase or the expulsion of a newly generated anion into the aqueous phase.
Result	It can be anticipated that as the aqueous cation hydrophilicity increases, it becomes increasingly energetically more difficult to transfer the cation into the oil phase, until the cation can no longer thermodynamically transfer and the organic phase anion is expelled into the aqueous phase.
Method	We have examined aqueous chloride solutions containing the hydrophilic alkaline metal cations Li+, K+ and Rb+ and the less hydrophilic tetraalkylammonium cations NR4+ (R = Me, Pr, Bu and Pe).
Method	We first consider the response obtained in 0.1 M A+Cl− (A+ = K+, Li+, Rb+) aqueous solutions.
Result	Fig. 5a shows 5 successive scans (0.1 V s−1) obtained at a bppg electrode modified with 1 nmol of TCBQ immersed in 0.1 M KCl aqueous solution.
Result	The first cycle exhibits a single reduction peak at −0.052V (vs.
Result	SCE) and a small back oxidative peak at +0.008V (vs.
Result	SCE) (ratio of the anodic to cathodic charge Q°/Qr = 0.26) giving rise to a peak-to-peak-potential separation of 60 mV.
Result	With increasing potential redox cycling on the same electrode, the prominent reductive peak magnitude decreases and almost no anodic response remains.
Result	A slightly shift toward less negative reductive potential is observed on the second scan.
Conclusion	This might be due to an electrochemically induced partitioning of the electrolyte into the droplets causing the electrical resistance of the droplets to diminish which in turn makes the reduction process easier or, more likely, to the reduction of the smaller size droplets.
Method	A scan rate dependence study was also carried out.
Result	The corresponding initial (first cycle) voltammograms recorded at different scan rate (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5 and 1.0 V s−1) are shown in Fig. 5b and the voltammetric data summarised in Table 3.
Result	A single reductive wave with a corresponding small oxidative wave is observed at all scan rates.
Result	The ratio anodic charge to cathodic charge (see Table 3) increases slightly with increasing scan rate, however data obtained at scan rate larger that 0.2 V s−1 should be treated carefully since ohmic losses in the unsupported microdroplets are not negligible.
Result	A plot of the reductive peak current versus scan rate (insert plot of Fig. 5b) is shown to be linear, consistent with an essentially complete electrolysis with a thin layer of deposited material.
Result	Fig. 5c exhibits the voltammograms obtained when the potential was cycled twice at very slow scan rate (i.e, 10 mV s−1).
Result	The first scan exhibits a reductive wave at −0.0011 V and no appreciable anodic counterpart.
Result	The second scan shows little further than resistive behaviour suggesting that complete reduction of the whole droplet has occurred during the first cycle.
Result	Analysis of the amount of charge passed (i.e, integrated area of the reductive peak) on the first reductive scan potential reveals the transfer of a single electron per TCBQ molecule (see Table 4).
Result	A similar response was observed for other very hydrophilic metal cations such as Li and Rb and the corresponding voltammograms obtained at 0.01 V s−1 are overlaid for comparison in Fig. 6a.
Result	A single reductive peak of similar magnitude is observed at ca. +0.0 V for all cations.
Result	Furthermore, plots of the reductive peak current against scan rate (Fig. 6b) are linear for each different metal cation and the amount of charge passed suggested, in all cases, the discharge of one electron per molecule of TCBQ (Table 4).
Result	This type of electrochemical behaviour is somehow not surprisingly considering the high transfer free energy possessed by the alkali metal40 which makes the insertion into the oil deposit a thermodynamically unfavourable process.
Conclusion	Hence the electroneutrality of the organic phase is maintained by expulsion of the electro-generated radical anion into the aqueous phase as expressed by:TCBQ(oil) + e− → TCBQ−˙(aq)As the radical anion diffuses out of the diffusion layer during reduction, little radical anion remains to be oxidised and therefore little oxidative back peak is observed.
Result	Furthermore, this process causes depletion of TCBQ in the oil phase and hence, on successive scans, the peak height decreases as shown in Fig. 5a.
Background	This has been described as the electrochemically induced anion dissolution mechanism.12
Problem	It has been shown that, in the case of anion dissolution, the electron transfer might be initiated at the three phase boundary, but the dissolution may occur from the liquid|liquid interface.
Conclusion	The large currents observed further support this interpretation.
Method	We now turn to the voltammetric characteristics of the microdroplets in the presence of less hydrophilic cations, i.e the quaternary alkylammonium cations NR4+ (R = Me, Pr, Bu and Pe) in the aqueous phase.
Result	Fig. 7a, 7b, 7c and 7d shows the cyclic voltammograms (0.1 V s−1) obtained for the reduction of TCBQ deposited onto a bppg electrode and immersed in aqueous 0.1 M TMeACl, TPrACl, TBuACl and TPeACl, respectively.
Conclusion	By increasing the length of the alkyl chain of the cation the hydrophobicity of the aqueous-based cation increases and this has profound effects on the electrochemical behaviour of the TCBQ microdroplets.
Result	In 0.1M TMeACl solutions (Fig. 7a) the response is qualitatively similar to that observed in aqueous alkali metal chloride solutions, with a single reductive peak at −0.05 V and a very little back oxidative peak.
Result	The signal was found to diminish on increasing redox cycling and charge integration at low scan rates (0.01 V s −1) reveals the transfer of one electron per molecule of TCBQ suggesting that the dissolution of the electrogenerated radical anion is still more favourable process than the insertion of TMeA+.
Result	The dissolution rather than the cation insertion mechanism appears to be the pathway followed also in 0.1 M TPrACl aqueous solution.
Result	However, in this case, the associated voltammetry (Fig. 7b) is more complex as it was found to be dependent on the scan rate.
Result	At low scan rate (0.01 V s−1) a single reductive wave can be seen at −0.04 V, consistent with the dissolution of the radical anion.
Result	However, based on the charge under the peak the number of electrons associated with this signal is only 0.5, suggesting that incomplete droplet conversion takes place under these conditions.
Result	Furthermore, voltammograms recorded at scan rate faster than 0.050 V s−1 (also overlaid in Fig. 7b) exhibit two reductive peaks at +0.048V and at −0.1 V (vs.
Result	SCE), respectively.
Result	These could be tentatively attributed to the reduction of TCBQ to the radical anion and to the dianion, respectively, upon the uptake of TMeA+ from the solution to balance the charge for TCBQ being reduced.
Result	However, the fact that the anodic to cathodic charge ratio is much less than one for both peaks, suggests that insertion pathway is only a minor contribution to the overall electrochemical process which is thought to proceed mainly via dissolution of the electrogenerated species.
Result	Fig. 7c shows three successive redox cycles obtained in 0.1M TBuACl solutions at 0.1 V s−1.
Result	The first scan exhibits a single peak at +0.219 V (vs.
Result	SCE) with a corresponding oxidative peak at +0.289 V (vs.
Result	SCE) giving rise a peak-to-peak separation of 70 mV.
Result	The re-oxidative peak current is of the same magnitude of the current associated with the reductive process and the anodic charge passed on the return of the scan is equal to the cathodic charge passed in the preceding negative going scan.
Result	Finally, analysis of the charge passed at 0.01 V s−1 suggests the transfer of 1 electron per molecule of TCBQ.
Conclusion	All these observations are consistent with TBuA+ insertion into the oil phase as expressed by:TCBQ(oil) + TBuA+ (aq) + e− → [TCBQ−˙TBuA+](oil)As TCBQ is reduced to the radical anions TCBQ−˙, TBuA+ cations transfer across the liquid|liquid interface (specifically at the three phase boundary3,4,30) to preserve the electroneutrality of the electrically insulating oil microdroplets.
Conclusion	A comparison of the reduction peak potential observed in aqueous TBuACl and in alkali metal chloride solutions reveals a shift versus less negative potential of ca. 0.27 V which further supports the assignment of the insertion mechanism.
Background	A slightly dissolution, probably via ion-pairs,15,16,33,41–44 is thought to be responsible for the diminished signal obtained upon continual redox cycling.
Conclusion	The possibility of cation adsorption followed by its slow transfer across the liquid|liquid interface cannot be ruled out.
Background	We finally turn our attention to the current|voltage characteristics of TCBQ microdroplets in 0.1 M TPeACl.
Result	The corresponding initial voltammogram recorded at 0.05 V s−1 (Fig. 7d) reveals the appearance of a sharp reductive peak at +0.3 V (vs.
Result	SCE), a broad reductive peak at ca. −0.10 (vs.
Result	SCE) and a small third reductive wave at −0.245 V (vs.
Result	SCE).
Result	Upon reversal of the scan three corresponding oxidative back peaks are observed at +0.319 V, −0.215 V and −0.34 V, respectively.
Result	As shown in Fig. 8, a stable response of all three peaks upon continual redox cycling is obtained at faster scan rate (0.5 V s−1).
Conclusion	Therefore, we speculate the reversible TPeA+ insertion and the assignment of the two reductive peaks as expressed by:TCBQ(oil) + TPeA+ (aq) + e− → [TCBQ−˙TPeA+](oil)[TCBQ−˙TPeA+](oil) + TPeA+(oil) + e− → [TCBQ2−(TpeA+)2](oil)This response is analogous to that observed in homogeneous solution of BN (see section 3.1, Homogeneous voltammetry).
Conclusion	Voltammograms recorded when the droplets where purposely made conductive via the addition of TBuAP in the oil phase (see section 3.4) exhibited the same voltammetric characteristics of the unsupported droplets, which further suggests the insertion of TPrA+ as given in eqns. (5) and (6).
Problem	The pH dependence on the reduction of unsupported microdroplets of TCBQ was examined in buffer solutions with pH values of 4, 7 and 10 (see the Experimental section for a detailed specification of each buffer composition).
Result	Fig. 9 exhibits the corresponding cyclic voltammograms (scan rate 0.01 V s−1) for the reduction of 1.1 nmoles of TCBQ immobilised on a bppg electrode immersed in each different buffer solution.
Result	It can be seen that the response obtained at pH 10 is similar to that obtained in 0.1 M alkali metal chloride solutions, with a single reductive peak at −0.013 V and almost negligible anodic counterpart.
Result	Analysis of the amount of charge passed at 0.01 V s−1 reveals the transfer of 1 electron per molecule of TCBQ.
Conclusion	This, together with a linear relationship of the magnitude of the reductive peak with scan rate, suggests that the radical anion TCBQ−˙ dissolves out of the surface confined organic droplet phase.
Result	However, as shown in Fig. 9, by increasing the concentration of protons in the aqueous phase, the reduction of TCBQ occurs at less negative potentials (the observed reductive peak potential were +0.042 V at pH 7 and +0.173 V at pH 4, respectively).
Result	A closer examination of this figure also reveals that, in the presence of a high proton concentration, the voltammetry is qualitatively different form that observed in the absence of protons.
Result	At lower pH values the signal shape is more symmetric and the re-oxidative peak current is of the same magnitude of the forward going reductive peak current.
Background	This pH dependence can be rationalised considering that protons are positively-charged species that are able to move into the oil phase to neutralised any negative charge that develops during the reduction of TCBQ.
Background	The liquid|liquid protonation process is well-documented in the literature11,25 and protons are perhaps the most common type of electrolyte ions partitioning into an organic phase from an aqueous phase.
Background	The sensitivity of quinone species to protons is also well-know.45,46
Conclusion	Thus, we might write for the reductive peak observed:TCBQ(oil) + mH+(aq) + ne− → [TCBQn−Hm+](oil)We can then apply the Nernst equation to the proton insertion process described above in eqn. (7):The identity of the [TCBQn−Hm+](oil) species could, in principle, be inferred by the analysis of the variation of the reduction peak potential Epr with proton concentration together with the quantification of the amount of charge passed during the reductive process which should yield n for the process given in eqn. (7).
Result	In the range 4 ≤ pH ≤ 7, Epr for the single reductive peak observed varies as 51 mV per decadic change in proton concentration, indicative (within the experimental error resulting from the analysis of distorted voltammograms associated with the resistive nature of the droplets) of m = n in the process given in (7).
Result	Monitoring of the charge passed at low scan rate (0.01 V s−1) yields values of n = 1.2 ± 0.2 at pH 4 and n = 1.15 ± 0.2 at pH 7.
Result	However, this data should be treated with caution as second scans on the same electrode reveals that exhaustive electrolysis did not occur at either pH 7 or pH 4, under these conditions.
Background	A quantitative analysis of this data is further complicated because of difference in the composition of the liquid|liquid interface determined by different identity and concentration of anions present in each different buffer solutions.
Background	Moreover, reactions between the semiquinone and the dianion of various quinone derivatives are well known46 and thus, a cascade of follow-up chemistry via protonation can be anticipated.
Result	Nevertheless, the present results are qualitatively not inconsistent with either the transfer of one proton to the oil phase to protonate the electrogenerated radical anion TCBQ−˙ (and produce a neutral free radical anion TCBQH˙) or, more likely, the transfer of two protons and a two–electron reduction of TCBQ to the hydroquinone structure TCBQH2.
Conclusion	This field-induced proton migration into and across the oil phase provides the ionic current required for the electron transfer to occur thereby ensuring electroneutrality within the microdroplets environment is maintained.
Conclusion	The observed selectivity towards proton insertion as compared to alkali metal cation insertion discussed above is contrary to thermodynamic considerations for which the free energy of transfer across the BN|water interface is least favourable for protons.40
Conclusion	However, the higher efficiency of proton insertion, as compared with Group I cations insertion, reflects the basicity of the reduction products of TCBQ.
Conclusion	Thus the proton phase is induced by the formation of strong O–H bonds within the hydroquinone molecules.
Background	Having assessed the properties of unsupported TCBQ microdroplets, we now discuss the behaviour of microdroplets made conductive by addition of a hydrophobic, nonpartitioning supporting electrolyte such as TBuAP dissolved in the oil phase.
Problem	As the microdroplets are now supported, electron transfer may occur within the microdroplets or at the liquid|liquid interface.
Problem	We have studied the voltammetric characteristics of supported (with TBuAP) droplets of TCBQ immobilised on the bppg electrode immersed in three different aqueous chloride solutions containing the non-inserting cation Li+ or the inserting TBuA+ and TPeA+.
Problem	We first examined the effect of the presence of TBuAP dissolved in the oil phase microdroplets on the reduction of 1 nmole TCBQ immobilised at a bppg electrode immersed in aqueous 0.1 M LiCl.
Result	Shown in Fig. 10a is the effect of increasing the concentration of TBuAP in the oil phase (from 0 to 2 M) on the response of TCBQ microdroplets in 0.1 M LiCl solutions at 0.05 V s−1.
Result	It can be seen that the presence of a supporting electrolyte within the oil deposit has a profound effect on the resulting voltammetry of TCBQ.
Result	The current|voltage profiles are now characterised by two reductive peaks (as opposed to the single reductive peak observed in the case of unsupported droplets) and two small corresponding oxidative back peaks.
Result	Furthermore, as the TBuAP concentration increases, the first reductive peak shifts versus less negative potential meanwhile the second reductive peak shifts versus more negative potential so that the potential separation between the two reductive peaks increases as the droplets are made more and more conductive.
Result	Voltammograms were also recorded for the supported droplets (with 2 M TBuAP) when the potential was reversed after the first reductive process (Fig. 10b).
Result	In this case, the ratio of anodic to cathodic peak current was found to be ≈1 and the signal was found to decrease only slightly upon continual redox cycling.
Result	Furthermore, a scan rate dependence study reveals that the first cathodic peak scales linearly with the scan rate and the peak-to-peak separation relative to the first reductive wave increases with scan rate, from 20 mV at 0.05 V s−1 to 200 mV at 1 V s−1.
Result	Hence, the two reductive peaks can be attributed to the reduction of TCBQ to the radical anion TCBQ−˙ and to the dianion TCBQ2−, respectively, as observed in homogeneous solution of BN (vide supra).
Problem	Next we examine the electrochemical behaviour of supported TCBQ microdroplets immersed in an aqueous solution containing 0.1 M TPeACl.
Result	Overlaid in Fig. 11 are the responses obtained in the absence and in the presence of 2 M TBuAP in the oil phase.
Result	No substantial change in the peaks appearance or in the peak shape is observed.
Result	Hence, addition of a nonpartitioning hydrophobic electrolyte such at TBuAP to the oil phase causes no change in the reduction of the immobilised microdroplets of TCBQ when 0.1M TPeACl is dissolved in the aqueous phase.
Result	Thus, it can be inferred that the insertion of the TPeA+ cation is unaffected by the addition of an electrolyte in the oil phase.
Result	However, when the supporting electrolyte dissolved in the aqueous phase still contains a more hydrophilic inserting cation than TPeA+ the addition of a hydrophobic salt (i.e., TBuAP) to the oil phase microdroplets results in an anomalous and more difficult to explain voltammetric behaviour.
Result	In Fig. 12a, 12b and 12c are overlaid the first four current|voltage profiles obtained for the reduction of TCBQ microdroplets immersed in 0.1 M TBuACl in the absence and in the presence of 0.1, 1 and 2 M TBuAP, respectively, in the oil phase.
Result	It can be seen that, as the TBuAP concentration in the oil phase increases, the reductive peak moves versus more negative potential and the anodic counterpart of the voltammograms is almost lost as the droplets are made more conductive.
Result	The response from the TCBQ/TCBQ−˙ couple is stable upon continual potential cycling.
Result	The fact that it is more difficult to reduce TCBQ as the resistance within the droplets decreases, is, at first, surprising.
Conclusion	However, this might be explained considering that the reduction of TCBQ occurs upon TBuA+ insertion, the latter being more and more difficult process to occur as the TBuAP concentration in the oil phase is increased.
Conclusion	Alternatively, it might be suggested the electroneutrality within the oil deposit is maintained by expulsion of the perchlorate anion into the aqueous phase.
Conclusion	The fact that perchlorate anion is toward the hydrophobic end of the Hofmeister scale, might account for the observed stretched voltammograms (i.e., perchlorate anion must be “dragged” out of the oil phase into the aqueous phase).
Conclusion	The method of immobilising microdroplets of TCBQ on the surface of a bppg electrode and then investigating the electrochemical reduction when the electrode is placed in aqueous electrolyte solutions has given new insights into the redox chemistry of TCBQ because, in contrast to the case of its reduction in homogeneous media, the redox conversion of TCBQ in the form of microdroplets requires the uptake or expulsion of ions dictated by the requirements of electroneutrality.
Background	Hence, this study has provided new data on the nature of the processes occurring at the liquid|liquid interface involved in the reduction of microdroplets containing dissolved TCBQ.
Conclusion	The variety of experimental data collected reveals that the response changes depending on the identity and concentration of the cation dissolved in the aqueous phase.
Conclusion	Upon reduction, the electroneutrality within the microdroplet environment, was shown to be preserved by the occurrence of two different type of charge neutralisation processes depending on the hydrophilicity of the cation in the aqueous phase: cation electroinsertion (for the large organic cations TBuA+ and TPeA+) or electrogenerated-anion expulsion (for the hydrophilic alkali metal cations).
Conclusion	Finally, the large shift versus less negative reductive potential observed in acidic media was explained in terms of the basicity of the reduction products of TCBQ and it showed that cross-phase proton transfer can control the potential where Faradaic processes take place.

Problem	Intracellular localization of a long alkyl chain tetraphenylporphyrin and chloride channel activation in Psammobatis extenta electrocytes
Problem	The intracellular localization of a tetraphenylporphyrin bearing four long lipophilic alkyl chains in electrocytes from Psammobatis extenta (Rajidae) is described.
Result	In contrast to what is usually the case, this porphyrin derivative is localized in the electromotor nerves and the nuclear chromatin of the electrocytes.
Result	Both structures exhibited intense fluorescence, whereas, the mitochondria were only slightly fluorescent.
Problem	These data are discussed in relation to electrocyte death in a weakly electric fish.
Conclusion	Additionally, electron probe X-ray microanalysis suggests a migration of chloride and cationic ions, which might be implicated in chloride and cationic channel activation in the electrocyte.
Background	The development of new generation photosensitizers to improve the efficiency of photodynamic therapy (PDT) is an area of intensive research.
Background	In PDT, the activation of a photosensitizer by light generates singlet molecular oxygen (1O2), a highly active form of oxygen that reacts with many biomolecules, including lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids.1
Background	The biomolecules are chemically modified by the action of 1O2 and, therefore, cannot accomplish their function, which leads to cell death.
Background	This therapy is applied for treatment of cancer, as well as for bacterial and viral eradication.2–6
Background	The fluorescence exhibited by photosensitizers means they can also be used for detection of tumors.7
Background	The advantages of this method, as compared to other conventional cancer treatment modalities, are its low systemic toxicity and its ability to destroy tumors selectively.
Background	Nevertheless, the application of PDT remains restricted due to the limited penetration of light into tissues, the photosensitization of normal tissues, and the residual skin photosensitivity that is observed for several weeks following treatment.
Background	The lipophilicity of a particular photosensitizer determines its localization and, therefore, the site and nature of the damage it gives rise to in cells;6,8,9 in general, lipophilic photosensitizers accumulate in the membrane of a cell and its organelles.5
Background	On the other hand, hydrophilic, as well as aggregated states of photosensitizers, enter the cell by pynocitosis and are localized mainly in lysosomes and endosomes.10
Background	There are many photosensitizers, mostly porphyrin or phthalocyanine derivatives, under clinical study that can be classified as lipophilic or hydrophilic.11
Background	However, there are a few examples of neutral macrocycles with long alkyl chains which have been studied as potential photosensitizers for PDT.
Background	The efficiency and selectivity of tumor targeting has been shown to increase slightly upon increasing the length of the alkyl groups connected to a Zn(ii)–phthalocyanine complex.12,13
Problem	In this work, we have investigated the uptake and intracellular localization of 5,10,15,20-tetrakis(4-n-dodecylphenyl)porphyrin (1), and the elemental composition and morphological changes in electrocytes of Psammobatis extenta.
Background	This species belongs to the Rajidae, one of three groups of weakly electric fish.
Background	We chose electrocytes for this study because they are large cells with very few organelles.
Background	This facilitates the study of the intracellular localization of the photosensitizer.
Background	In addition, electric ray electrocytes have myoproteins.14,15
Background	The electrocytes are highly polarized and multinuclear cells.
Result	They are semicircular in shape (Fig. 1) and have their concave face receiving innervations (IF) from electromotor neurons of the spinal cord.
Background	The other face, which is convex, is non-innervated (NIF) and shows a system of caveolae.14
Background	The nuclei are localized at the posterior region of the cytoplasm.14
Method	Electric organ cryostat sections were performed along the antero-posterior axis; sections were incubated with a solution of 1 in a mixture of xylene, EtOH, and imidazole buffer and observed with an epifluorescence microscope (Fig. 2).
Result	The phase-contrast micrograph [Fig. 2(a)] shows part of two electrocytes and the fluorescence micrograph [Fig. 2(b)] shows strong fluorescence in the nuclei, but only very slight fluorescence in the mitochondria.
Result	When the incubation was performed in CHCl3 solution only, the intracellular localization of 1 is the same, but the micrograph shows better contrast (Fig. 3).
Result	The photosensitizer also shows affinity for the terminal nerves (TN).
Background	The affinity of this lipophilic photosensitizer for the nerves is a result of this tissue being rich in fatty acids.
Result	The nuclei show an intense red fluorescence and the shape of this fluorescence is similar to the semicircular distribution of the chromatin of these cells (Fig. 3), suggesting that 1 interacts with DNA.
Result	In contrast, the mitochondria show only slight fluorescence.
Result	This localization is unusual for other photosensitizers of similar polarity.
Background	For example, a lipophilic phthalocyanine has been found to localize on the lysosomes.16
Result	Immediately after the penetration of 1 (1.2 × 10–4 M in chloroform) into the electrocytes, they start to swell and the convex faces lose all their invaginations (Fig. 4).
Method	In order to understand the reason for the swelling of cells, microanalysis by energy-dispersive X-ray (EDAX) spectroscopy of the same region was carried out. After treatment of the electrocyte with 1, the relative semi-quantitative contents [Kα (wt%)] of oxygen, sodium, and chloride ions were 39, 17, and 15, respectively.
Background	Compared to the negative control, the peak for Na+ is five times larger, while for oxygen, the variation is not significant.
Background	Additionally, the Ca2+ peak is twice as large for the treated electrocyte compared to the negative control, but that for K+ is six times smaller.
Result	The simultaneous increase in the Na+ and Ca2+ concentrations and the decrease in the K+ concentration is good evidence for cationic channel activation by the porphyrin derivative.
Result	However, the most important change is the appearance of a large new peak corresponding to the Cl– anion.
Result	Treatment of electrocytes with systems I and II [(I) 7.8 × 10–5 M of 1 in CHCl3–EtOH–imidazole buffer; (II) 3.9 × 10–4 M of 1 in xylene–EtOH–imidazole buffer] produces similar behavior to that observed after treatment with the CHCl3 solution of 1.
Result	In both cases, the EDAX patterns shows a new peak corresponding to the chloride anion (Fig. 5).
Result	The Kα values for this element are 47 (system I) and 33 wt% (system II), in spite of the higher concentration of 1 in system II (5 times higher) compared to system I. These results constitute suggestive evidence for chloride channel activation as a consequence of the penetration of 1 into the electrocytes.
Background	The massive intracellular accumulation of Cl– and, particularly, the influx of Na+ lead to cell swelling, and eventually a necrotic response from the cells.17,18
Background	It should be pointed out that chloride channel activation is not usual for weakly electric fish.
Background	However, the presence of a voltage-gated chloride channel was demonstrated in the non-innervated plasma membrane of electrocytes of Torpedo, a strongly electric fish.19
Conclusion	The activation of the chloride channel by 1 may constitute an alternative for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, which is related to a dysfunction of chloride ion transport.20
Background	In contrast, the increase in the Ca2+ concentration in the electrocytes suggests the participation of an apoptotic mechanism.1
Background	Moreover, the interaction of 1 with DNA, and even the low amount of mitochondrial-bound porphyrin, may contribute to cell death by an apoptotic mechanism after excitation with light.
Background	The photosensitizer used in this work has liquid crystalline properties.21,22
Background	It would be very interesting to compare these results with those obtained using another photosensitizer with a similar chemical structure but no mesomorphic properties.

Problem	Hyperpolarized 129Xe NMR investigation of multifunctional organic/inorganic hybrid mesoporous silica materials
Problem	An extensive study has been made on a series of multifunctional mesoporous silica materials, prepared by introducing two different organoalkoxysilanes, namely 3-[2-(2-aminoethylamino)ethylamino]propyltrimethoxysilane (AEPTMS) and 3-cyanopropyltriethoxysilane (CPTES) during the base-catalyzed condensation of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS), using the variable-temperature (VT) hyperpolarized (HP) 129Xe NMR technique.
Result	VT HP-129Xe NMR chemical shift measurements of adsorbed xenon revealed that surface properties as well as functionality of these AEP/CP-functionalized microparticles (MP) could be controlled by varying the AEPTMS/CPTES ratio in the starting solution during synthesis.
Result	Additional chemical shift contribution due to Xe-moiety interactions was observed for monofunctional AEP-MP and CP-MP as well as for bifunctional AEP/CP-MP samples.
Conclusion	In particular, unlike CP-MP that has a shorter organic backbone on the silica surface, the amino groups in the AEP chain tends to interact with the silanol groups on the silica surface causing backbone bending and hence formation of secondary pores in AEP-MP, as indicated by additional shoulder peak at lower field in the room-temperature 129Xe NMR spectrum.
Result	The exchange processes of xenon in different adsorption regions were also verified by 2D EXSY HP-129Xe NMR spectroscopy.
Conclusion	It is also found that subsequent removal of functional moieties by calcination treatment tends to result in a more severe surface roughness on the pore walls in bifunctional samples compared to monofunctional ones.
Problem	The effect of hydrophobicity/hydrophilicity of the organoalkoxysilanes on the formation, pore structure and surface property of these functionalized mesoporous silica materials are also discussed.
Background	Organically modified mesoporous silicas prepared by either direct synthesis or post-synthesis modification/functionalization have attracted much attention1 due to their potential applications as selective catalysts,1,2 adsorbents,3 and sensors.4
Background	To realize these applications, it is essential to obtain capabilities in custom-tailoring the surface properties and in controlling the particle and pore morphologies of these materials.
Method	Recently, we have reported an approach that allows a synergistic control over the pore structure, particle morphology, and surface functionalization by introducing different molar ratios of organoalkoxysilane precursors that could provide different non-covalent interactions with the cationic surfactant template, cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB), in a base-catalyzed condensation of silicate.5
Method	For example, a series of bifunctional mesoporous silica materials were prepared by introducing different molar ratios of two organoalkoxysilanes, namely 3-[2-(2-aminoethylamino)ethylamino]propyltrimethoxysilane (AEPTMS) and 3-cyanopropyltriethoxysilane (CPTES) to a base-catalyzed condensation of tetraethoxysilane (TEOS) in the presence of CTAB.
Method	These bifunctional mesoporous organic–inorganic hybrid materials exhibited fine-tuned chemical accessibility in terms of Cu2+ adsorption capability.5a
Background	However, an unexpected nonlinear correlation between the Cu2+ adsorption capability with the amount of AEP groups in such AEP/CP bifunctional silicas were evident, indicating that the CP functionality, which is relatively more hydrophobic in nature, should also play an active role in the observed decrease in chemical accessibility per AEP group.5a
Background	Thus, a more detailed understanding of the conformation of organic moieties and related guest-host interactions in the confined space demands further investigation.
Method	129Xe NMR spectroscopy6 is an unique and powerful tool for probing local environments of xenon adsorbed in various systems, such as porous materials,6,7 polymers,8 biomolecules9 and liquid crystals.10
Method	Unlike conventional 129Xe NMR in which the nuclear spin polarization is governed by Boltzmann equilibrium, laser-polarized 129Xe NMR facilitates a metastable polarization transfer from the alkali-metal electronic spin to the 129Xe nucleus by the spin exchange optical pumping method,11 thus capable of enhancing signal sensitivity by 103–105 folds even at dilute Xe loading.12
Method	Thus, the hyperpolarized (HP) 129Xe NMR technique is particularly useful for systems with low surface areas and/or long spin–lattice relaxation times (T1), and has found widespread applications, for examples, in surfaces, nanocrystals or thin films,13 porous materials,12,14 magnetic resonance imaging and medical imaging,15 and sensors,16etc.
Background	In the case of conventional 129Xe NMR, the observed 129Xe chemical shift of Xe adsorbed on porous substrates can be expressed as:7δ = δ0 + δs + σXe–XeρXe where δ0 = 0 ppm is the reference chemical shift, δs represents the characteristic chemical shift due to Xe–wall interactions, corresponding to the shift at zero Xe loading and hence should reflect not only the chemical composition but also the geometry of Xe environment of the surface adsorption site.
Background	The last term, σXe−XeρXe, is the contribution due to Xe–Xe interactions, which normally increases linearly with Xe loading, ρXe.
Background	Whereas for HP-129Xe NMR, since the experiments are normally carried out at dilute Xe loading, the chemical shift contribution arising from Xe–Xe interactions can be greatly depressed.
Background	More recently, similar technique has been applied to probe the geometry and interconnectivity of pores in organic aerogels17 and the pore structure18 and alkyl ligands19 of mesoporous silicas modified with alkylsilanes.
Problem	The objective of this work is to investigate the structural and surface properties of the aforementioned organic–inorganic hybrid mesoporous materials using variable-temperature (VT) HP-129Xe NMR and two-dimensional exchange spectroscopy (2D EXSY) NMR techniques.20
Problem	A series of bifunctional mesoporous silicas synthesized by introducing different molar ratios of AEPTMS and CPTES precursors to a base-catalyzed co-condensation of silicate have been examined along with AEP- and CP-monofunctional silicas.
Problem	Various information regarding to the conformation, hydrophilicity/hydrophobicity, and functionalities of the AEP/CP groups and their correlations with the structural porosity, surface roughness and related Xe-moiety interactions, which can be inferred from the temperature dependence of 129Xe characteristic chemical shift (δs), has been investigated and compared with the 13C CP-MAS NMR results reported earlier5.
Method	Various mono- and bifunctional mesoporous silicas were prepared following the procedures described in an earlier report.5
Method	Accordingly, a series of micrometre-sized particles (MP) of organic–inorganic hybrid materials with varying molar concentrations of organoalkoxysilane precursors ranging from 100% AEPTMS to 100% CPTES, with the total amount of AEPTMS + CPTES relative to TESO fixed at 12.8 mol% were obtained.
Method	Herein, we denote the monofunctionalized microparticles as AEP-MP or CP-MP and the bifunctionalized materials as AEP/CP(x/y)-MP, where x/y denotes the relative ratio of AEPTMS/CPTES in the initial reaction mixture.
Method	All samples were template extracted either by acid extraction or by calcination treatments.
Result	Further experiments by 13C CP-MAS NMR confirmed that no extra organic groups other than the designated functional groups are present in the AEP/CP(x/y)-MP samples, indicating a complete removal of template by the aforementioned treatments.5a
Result	Separate experiments by field-emission scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM) revealed that, in contrast to the pure MCM-41 mesoporous silica synthesized under the same conditions, the AEP/CP-MP samples exhibit spherical shapes, whereas AEP-MP and CP-MP resulted in sphere and rod shapes and sizes, i.e., from spheres with an average diameter of 3 μm to rods with an average size of 1.0 × 0.2 μm.5b
Result	The average diameters of AEP/CP-MP spheres decreased as the relative ratio (x/y) changed from 5/5 to 1/9.
Method	Calcination treatments of the samples were carried out at 823 K under flowing air for 4 h, they are denoted as AEP-, CP- and AEP/CP(x/y)-MPC, respectively.
Method	All samples were compressed by pressure of 100 MPa for 10 min, crashed into small pellets, and then dehydrated under vacuum at 423 K for 12 h prior to the HP 129Xe NMR experiments.
Method	The above post-synthesis treatment procedure effectively eliminate the effect arising from fast exchange between Xe adsorbed in the intra- and inter-particle voids while avoid jeopardizing the textural structures of the samples.21
Method	Detailed descriptions of the continuous-flow optical pumping apparatus for fabricating the HP-129Xe gas can be found elsewhere.19
Method	Briefly, the spin-exchange optical pumping process was facilitated by introducing a gas mixture of 97% He, 1% N2, and 2% Xe (natural abundance) into the pumping cell (containing 1 g Rb metal and placed under a magnetic field of ca. 200 G) maintained at 4 atm and 423 K, while subjecting to irradiation of left-circularly polarized light (wavelength 794.8 nm) generated by a diode laser (Coherent; FAP-30).
Method	The resulted gas mixture containing HP-129Xe (polarization ca. 2.4%) was introduced into a home-designed NMR tube via 1/16 inch Teflon tubing and continuously flew through the sample at ca. 100 scc min−1 at 1 atm, the gas mixture was eventually vent to the atmosphere.
Method	As such, this corresponds to an equilibrium Xe partial pressure of ca. 15.2 Torr.
Background	It has been found that the presence of He and N2 buffer gases has no significant effect on the resultant HP-129Xe NMR spectrum.12
Result	Separate experimental tests using the batch setup confirmed that the achievable signal enhancement factor was ca. 3500.
Method	All HP-129Xe NMR spectra were acquired on a Bruker Avance 300 NMR spectrometer at Larmor frequency of 83.012 MHz using a single-pulse sequence with a π/2 pulse (15 μs) and a recycle delay of 5 s.
Method	Typically, 64–256 free induction decay (FID) signals were accumulated for each spectrum.
Method	VT experiments were carried out in the temperature range 160–298 K. The actual sample temperature was calibrated using the 207Pb NMR signal of solid Pb(NO3)2.22
Method	The 129Xe NMR chemical shift was referenced to extremely diluted xenon gas (as 0 ppm).
Method	To verify the origins of the observed 129Xe resonances, additional experiments were also carried out by 2D EXSY 129Xe NMR technique20 at room temperature (298 K) using a 90°–t1–90°–tm–90°–t2 pulse sequence.
Method	The 2D NMR spectrum was acquired with a spectral width of 12.5 kHz and 512 and 2048 points were acquired for the t1 and t2 dimensions, respectively, while changing the mixing time (tm) from 1 to 25 ms.
Result	Figs. 1 and 2 display the VT HP-129Xe NMR spectra of various functionalized materials before and after the calcination, respectively.
Result	In general, most spectra exhibit two main resonances, the sharp peak at ca. 0 ppm can be unambiguously assigned to free gaseous Xe whereas the peak with higher chemical shift (or lower field) is attributed to Xe adsorbed in the mesopores.
Method	The observed chemical shift should be a weighted average of the fast exchange between Xe residing in different adsorption regions in the mesopores (see below).
Result	An expected increase in 129Xe chemical shift of the adsorbed Xe with decreasing temperature was observed for each sample, as depicted in Fig. 3.
Method	In view of the very low Xe loading (15.2 Torr) in the continuous-flow HP-129Xe NMR experiments, it is anticipated that only a dilute adsorption layer with a very weak contribution of Xe–Xe interactions to the observed chemical shift.
Method	As the temperature decreases, the adsorbed Xe should spend a longer time residing on the pore surface and thus causing the 129Xe NMR resonance to shift downfield.
Result	For T < 200 K, a sharp increase in chemical shift is evident, which may be attributed to the condensation of xenon.
Result	Only below such low temperature does the chemical shift contribution due to Xe–Xe interactions become significant.
Conclusion	Eventually, the 129Xe chemical shift is expected to approach that of bulk liquid Xe (ca. 255 ppm) and solid Xe (ca. 305 ppm).
Result	Unlike calcined samples whose 129Xe NMR spectra of the adsorbed Xe all exhibited a symmetrical narrow peak throughout the temperature examined (Fig. 2), broader and somewhat asymmetric lines were observed for most of the functionalized AEP/CP-MP samples.
Result	For example, two overlapped peaks at 87 and 98 ppm were observed for AEP-MP (Fig. 1a) at room temperature (298 K).
Result	These two peaks gradually merged to form a broad line at lower temperature (T < 260 K).
Result	Similar phenomenon was also observed for a dodecylsilane-grafted MCM-41 mesoporous silica at high surface coverage (1.31 nm−2).19
Conclusion	In this context, the AEP groups existing on the mesoporous silica surfaces might form an ‘organic phase’ in which the diffusional motion of Xe would be hindered provided that the surface coverage of the organic groups was high enough.
Conclusion	The effect of such ‘organic phase’ would be two-fold.
Conclusion	First, it might block Xe from accessing to the bare silica surface.
Conclusion	Second, it might interact with Xe to result in an additional contribution to the 129Xe chemical shift.
Result	Thus, we attribute a priori the shoulder peak at 98 ppm to Xe residing in the surface ‘organic phase’ and the main peak at ca. 87 ppm to ‘mobile’ Xe in mesopores.
Result	Upon decreasing temperature, the latter Xe tends to spend longer time on the pore surfaces grafted with AEP groups, hence, resulting the resonance to move toward down-filed (higher chemical shift) and eventually the two lines merge to reveal a singlet at low temperature.
Conclusion	Similarly, the increase in 129Xe chemical shift (Fig. 3) and slight linewidth broadening observed for bifunctional samples (Fig. 1) compared to the calcined samples (Fig. 2) may also be attributed to the presence of organic groups on the surface of mesoporous silicas, which tends to slow down the exchange of Xe between different local environments.
Problem	The interconnectivity between different Xe adsorption regions in the mesopores of AEP-MP was further examined by 2D EXSY NMR spectroscopy (Fig. 4a–c).
Result	Accordingly, the exchange between regions with different chemical shifts was revealed by the cross-peaks between the signals of the exchanging sites.
Result	Fig. 4a–c showed the 2D spectra of an AEP-MP sample using an exchange time (tm) of 1, 5 and 25 ms, respectively.
Result	The observed three diagonal peaks at ca. 0, 87, and 98 ppm in the vertical (F2) axis were assigned (vide supra) to gaseous Xe, ‘mobile’ Xe adsorbed in the mesopores, and Xe residing in the ‘organic phase’, respectively.
Result	In addition, the off-diagonal peaks intensified with increasing exchange times set in the experimental pulse sequence.
Result	For example, traces of cross peaks appeared at tm = 1 ms (Fig. 4a) indicating that the exchange between the ‘mobile’ (87 ppm) and gaseous (0 ppm) Xe occurred even on a time scale less than a fraction of 1 ms.
Result	As tm is increased to 5 ms, wherein such exchange became more pronounced, the exchange between ‘mobile’ Xe adsorbed in the mesopores and Xe in the ‘organic phase’ (98 ppm) began to take place (Fig. 4b).
Result	Eventually, the exchange between the ‘organic phase’ and the gaseous Xe’s was also evident with tm = 25 ms (Fig. 4c), indicating that the exchange between Xe species in different adsorption regions and the gas phase appeared to be completed.
Conclusion	Consequently, it can be concluded that the exchange rates between different environments follow the following trend: kgm > kmo > kgo, where kmo denotes the exchange rate between ‘mobile’ Xe in the mesopores and Xe residing in the ‘organic phase’ and kgm and kgo denote exchange rates between gaseous-‘mobile’ Xe and gaseous-‘organic phase’ Xe, respectively, as illustrated in Fig. 5.
Conclusion	It is envisaged that the slower rate observed for kgo may manifest itself via the other two exchange processes.
Conclusion	Accordingly, the dynamic phenomena obtained from the 129Xe 2D EXSY experiments provide strong supports to the aforementioned peak assignments for the room-temperature 129Xe NMR spectrum observed for AEP–MP.
Method	In the VT HP-129Xe NMR experiments, the concentration of Xe in the gas mixture flowing through the sample placed in the detection (NMR coil) region was extremely low (ca. 2%, equivalent to a Xe partial pressure of 15.2 Torr) and thus could be fitted adequately to the dilute adsorption (Henry’s Law) regime.
Method	Therefore, the temperature dependence of the observed 129Xe chemical shift, particularly for T > 200 K, could be approximated by the following equation derived based on the fast-exchange model:23where δs is the characteristic chemical shift, representing the shift arising from Xe–surface interactions, V and S represent the free volume and specific surface area of the mesoporous materials, respectively, R is the universal gas constant, K0 is the pre-exponent of Henry’s constant, and ΔHa is the adsorption enthalpy.
Method	Values of V and S can be derived from N2 adsorption/desorption data measured at 77 K and the other parameters δs, K0 and ΔHa can be determined by least-square fittings of the observed VT HP-129Xe NMR chemical shift results to eqn. (2), as summarized in Table 1.
Method	Since the chemical shift contribution arising from Xe–Xe interactions becomes more significant at low temperature, only those experimental results obtained at T > 200 K were used during data fittings.19,21,24
Result	All observed ΔHa values fall in the range of 9–17 kJ mol−1, as expected for physical adsorption of Xe.
Background	Since the characteristic chemical shift, δs, reflects interactions between Xe and the surface of the substrate.
Problem	In this context, for the functionalized porous materials, the values of δs should arise from Xe interacting with the bare surface of the mesoporous silica as well as that with the soft organic moieties.
Problem	Therefore, it would be helpful to compare the δs contribution due to Xe-moieties interactions observed for various bifunctional mesoporous MCM-41 samples investigated herein.
Result	Since the δs values observed for CP-MPC and AEP-MPC samples after removal of organic ligands by calcination were 104.9 and 106.0 ppm, respectively (Table 1), which are nearly identical (within experimental error; ca. ±1 ppm) to that of 105.4 ppm found previously for a bulk siliceous MCM-41 material (pore diameter ca. 2.54 nm)19,21 synthesized using the conventional procedure.25
Problem	Foreseeably, the surface properties of these materials, as detected by the adsorbed Xe, should be practically the same.
Result	On the other hand, an averaged δs an increase of ca. 7–9 ppm, was observed (Fig. 6) for the calcined samples originally prepared with various AEPTMS/CPTES (or x/y) ratios compared to the calcined AEP-MPC or CP-MPC samples, indicating a more severe surface roughness26 in the bifunctional than monofunctional mesoporous silica materials after calcinations.
Result	It is also evident that the δs values observed for bifunctionalized AEP/CP-MP materials, which seem to scatter in the 118–122 ppm range, are significantly higher than the calcined samples (Fig. 6 and Table 1).
Result	Xenon–organic-moiety interactions should be responsible for the observed differences.
Method	Accordingly, characteristic chemical shift contribution due to Xe–moiety interactions, δs,moiety, can be derived by the simple relation:δs,moiety = δs,fun − δs,calwhere δs,fun and δs,cal represent the δs values obtained from the functionalized AEP/CP-MP and calcined AEP/CP-MPC samples, respectively.
Result	However, since Xe–moiety interactions and hence δs,moiety should be strongly related to the arrangements, functionality, chain length and coverage (ρ) of the organic moieties, it is preferable to infer the Xe–moiety interactions in terms of deshielding medium contribution (−σmoiety), which can be derived by:19Accordingly, the values of −σmoiety derived from eqn. (4) are also depicted in Table 1.
Result	It is intriguing that the −σmoiety values obtained from the monofunctional and bifunctional materials fall into two distinct regions, the former observed for CP-MP and AEP-MP samples are higher than 17.7 ppm nm2 whereas the latter from series of AEP/CP-MP samples are lower than 11.2 ppm nm2 (Table 1).
Conclusion	This could be attributed to the more inhomogeneous distribution of organic moieties in the bifunctional materials compared to the monofunctional ones, as could also be inferred from the discrepancies in the observed values of δs,cal and consequently the values of δs,moiety listed in Table 1.
Conclusion	Unfortunately, further justification of the variation of −σmoiety with AEPTMS/CPTES ratios could not be made directly based on the results obtained from the present study.
Background	Alternatively, complementary information may be inferred from a similar system.
Background	In a previous study,19 we employed the similar VT HP-129Xe NMR technique to probe the surface properties of mesoporous MCM-41 silica grafted with various alkylsilanes by post-synthesis silylation treatment.
Background	It was found that the characteristic chemical shifts responsible for Xe-surface interactions exhibited strong correlations with both the surface coverage and carbon chain length (nC) of the grafted alkylsilanes.
Background	Consequently, the deshielding medium contribution due to the individual alkyl ligand could be deduced based on the group contribution analysis by the following empirical relationship:19–σmoiety = 2.96nC + 2.35
Result	Regardless of the differences in the chemical nature of organic ligands on the pore surface of the mesoporous silica between the two sample systems, if one take nC = 5 for CPTES, an estimated −σmoiety value of ca. 17.2 ppm nm2 is derived for CP-MP using eqn. (5), comparable to the value 17.7 ppm nm2 obtained from this study.
Conclusion	This is, of course, based on an oversimplified assumption that similar Xe-moieties were adsorbed in the two different mesoporous materials, namely alkylsilane-grafted MCM-41 and CP-MP that have CH3 and CN as end groups, respectively, i.e., the intrinsic chemical shift of the Xe–C and Xe–N moieties are practically the same because of the same atomic number of the organic backbones.
Result	By the same token, if one takes nC = 10 for AEPTMS, an estimated −σmoiety value of ca. 32.0 ppm nm2 for the AEP moiety in AEP-MP could be obtained.
Result	However, a significantly smaller value of 23.6 ppm nm2 was observed, which could be fitted to a value of nC = 7 by using eqn. (5).
Result	Furthermore, it is noteworthy that the presence of two broad, overlapping 129Xe resonances in the spectra of AEP-MP around room temperature (Fig. 1a) clearly suggested the existence of a strong Xe-AEP interaction considering its medium coverage (0.56 nm−2) and backbone length.
Conclusion	In this context, the observation mentioned above could be explained by a “prone” or “bent” conformation of the AEP moiety on the mesopore surfaces as depicted in Fig. 7.
Conclusion	As we reported in a previous study,5a the basic amino groups of the AEP functionality indeed could strongly interacted (hydrogen-bonded) with the silanol groups on the surface of the mesoporous silica.
Conclusion	Consequently, the AEP group will be less flexible and hence result in a decrease in interactions between Xe and each constitutional atom due to such geometric constraints.
Conclusion	Conversely, such a bent backbone arrangement was likely to increase the atomic density of the organic phase causing Xe to be ‘entangled’ in the organic phase and thus gave rise to a shoulder peak at 98 ppm.
Conclusion	In contrast, the CP and the alkyl moieties existing in the CP-MP and the aforementioned alkyl-grafted MCM-41 samples do not have any basic amino groups that can interact with the surface silanols.
Conclusion	In fact, conformations with flexible organic chains experienced by the adsorbed Xe were attributed to the obtained −σmoiety.
Conclusion	Although this hypothesis is based on a simplified model, it is in good agreement with our previous findings using 13C CP-MAS NMR, which revealed that the CP backbone in CP-MP is more mobile than that of AEP in AEP-MP.5a
Conclusion	Furthermore, should the bending of AEP backbones on the silica surface indeed occur, it will give rise to a shorter dendritic surface together with the co-existing shorter and hydrophobic CP moieties causing an effective reduction in chelating effect of the AEP group to Cu2+.
Background	Consequently, lower Cu2+ adsorption capacities were found for bifunctional AEP/CP-MP samples than AEP-MP5.
Problem	Assuming that the calcination treatment was sufficient in removing all organic moieties without jeopardizing the structure of the mesoporous silica, the aforementioned surface roughness observed for the calcined AEP/CP-MP samples (Fig. 6) should be strongly related to the synthesis conditions.
Method	These functionalized mesoporous silicas were prepared via a co-condensation reaction of TEOS with organoalkoxysilanes in a diluted aqueous solution of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB).
Conclusion	Based on the conventional surfactant-templated mechanism25 proposed for the formation of mesoporous MCM-41 materials under similar conditions, the oligomeric silicate polyanions acting as multidentate ligands should interact with cationic surfactant head groups to form surfactant/silica bilayers of lamellar phase.
Conclusion	Subsequent condensation of these silicate clusters would lead to a reduction of negative charges at the interface.
Conclusion	As a result, the different charge-density matching between the surfactant and the silicate provoked the formation of a hexagonal surfactant–silicate composite which yielded the mesoporous structure after removal of surfactant template.
Conclusion	However, for the multifunctional materials studied herein, the presence of additional organic groups (AEP and/or CP) that are covalently bonded to the silicate surface would foreseeably alter the interfacial property of the surfactant-silicate assemblies.
Conclusion	More specifically, the presence of the hydrophobic CP groups are likely to penetrate into the surfactant phase during formation of the surfactant–silicate interface in a way analogous to MCM-41 formation thus leading to a similar silicate ordering and hence a more uniform (smoother) silica surface, as evidenced by the similar δs values observed for CP-MPC (104.9 ppm) and Si-MCM-41 (105.4 ppm).
Conclusion	On the other hand, the more hydrophilic AEP moieties tend to occupy the space between the surfactant and the silicate forming a surfactant/AEP-silicate interface.
Result	Although only a slightly higher δs value was observed for AEP-MPC (106 ppm) compared to CP-MPC and Si-MCM-41, indicating a slightly rougher silica surface.
Background	It is noteworthy that the interactions between the amino groups on the AEP chains and the neighboring silanol groups indeed play an important role in curling the surfactant micelles in the surfactant/silicate composites as mentioned in our previous reports.5
Background	Thus, unlike MCM-41, the resultant template-free AEP-MP material possesses a disordered, wormhole-like porous structure.5
Background	Owing to the presence of AEP moieties, the bifunctional AEP/CP(x/y)-MP samples also possessed the wormhole-like mesoporous structures to various extents dictated by the designated x/y ratios.5
Conclusion	It was anticipated that a random distribution of AEP and CP moieties would lead to a non-uniform surfactant/silicate interfaces.
Conclusion	For example, the more hydrophobic CP moieties would tend to closely associate themselves with the surfactant micelles, whereas the hydrophilic and spatially demanding AEP-bonded silicas would like to be slightly further away from the micellar interface in order to accommodate a less favorable charge-density matching.
Conclusion	Such an effect could perhaps provide an explanation to the more sever surface roughness (i.e., higher δs value; see Table 1) observed in the bifunctional AEP/CP-MPC materials in comparison with those of monofunctional AEP-MPC or CP-MPC samples.
Problem	We have performed extensive VT HP-129Xe NMR chemical shift measurements of Xe adsorbed in a series of novel multifunctional organic/inorganic hybrid mesoporous silica materials.
Problem	Unlike conventional 129Xe NMR method, HP-129Xe renders highly sensitive detection of Xe local environments even at very dilute loading and thus capable of measuring 129Xe chemical shift primary associated with interactions between Xe and surface of the substrate.
Conclusion	As demonstrated in the present work, the use of VT HP-129Xe NMR technique allows us to probe the surface properties, pore structure, and local arrangement of the functional groups covalently anchored on the surfaces of the multifunctional AEP/CP-MP materials and hence should provoke further understanding and future developments of novel nanostructured materials.

Problem	Sequence-selective DNA detection using multiple laminar streams: A novel microfluidic analysis method
Background	On-site detection methods for DNA have been demanded in the pathophysiology field.
Background	Such analysis requires a simple and accurate method, rather than high-throughput.
Method	This report describes a novel microfluidic analysis method and its application for simple sequence-selective DNA detection.
Method	The method uses a microchannel device with a serpentine structure.
Method	Sequence-specific binding of probe DNA can be detected at one side of the microchannel.
Conclusion	This method is capable of sequence-specific detection of DNA with high accuracy.
Conclusion	Single base mutations can also be analyzed.
Conclusion	Combination of laminar stream and laminar secondary flow in the microchannel enable specific detection of probe-bound DNA.
Background	Pathophysiological analysis requires a simple and accurate method, rather than high-throughput.1
Background	Current DNA analysis methods utilize an enzyme reaction2,3 or DNA probe.4,5
Background	The latter technique is especially suitable for rapid DNA detection.1
Method	Several methods based on this technique have been developed using a groove binder6 or intercalator1,7–9 as the hybridization indicator.
Method	However, these methods have not been applied generally to pathophysiology because of technical difficulty, limited applications, low accuracy, and high cost.10,11
Problem	We have addressed microfluidic systems to develop a simple and accurate method for quick DNA analysis.
Background	Microfluidic systems offer superior controllability of fluidics.12–14
Method	The fluid forms a laminar stream at the straight part, whereas laminar secondary flow occurs at the turning point of a microchannel.
Method	This “laminar secondary flow” is the perpendicular flow to the principal laminar stream along the channel, and controlled easily by the channel structure and flow speed.
Method	Thus, we can create any kind of fluidic system by changing the channel structure.
Method	The acrylic microfluidic system chip (3 cm × 7 cm) used in this study was prepared by mechanical fabrication methods as reported in the previous paper.15
Method	The microchannel on this chip has a cross-sectional plane whose size is 300 µm width and 200 µm depth, 2.0 mm diameter curve and 24 cm length (for Fig. 3A), or 1.5 mm diameter curve and 49 cm length (for Fig. 4A).
Method	All probe and target oligonucleotides were obtained from Qiagen K. K. (Japan).
Method	The probe DNA was labeled by FITC at the 5′-end.
Method	Target DNAs 1–4 have a complementary sequence to probe DNA, 5 and 6 have a one-base mismatch mutation sequence, and 7 was prepared as a negative control.
Method	Sequences corresponding to probe DNA and target DNAs 1–6 were designed using part of a unique sequence of exon 4, on which the P72/R72 SNP resides, of cancer repression gene p.5316
Method	Concentrations of these oligonucleotides were estimated from the molar absorptivities at 260 nm:17–19 171 800 cm–1 M–1 for probe DNA, 98 300 cm–1 M–1 for target 1, 144 600 cm–1 M–1 for target 2, 186 000 cm–1 M–1 for target 3, 648 600 cm–1 M–1 for target 4, 101 800 cm–1 M–1 for target 5, 189 500 cm–1 M–1 for target 6 and 243 400 cm–1 M–1 for target 7.
Method	A syringe pump (KDS230; Kd Scientific, MA) controlled all injections of solutions into the microchannel.
Method	Fluorescence intensity in sequence-selective DNA sensing was measured using fluorescence microscopy with a fluorometer (C7473; Hamamatsu Photonics K.K., Japan), Ar-gas laser (Stabilite 2017, Spectra-physics Inc., CA) and a longpass filter (OG515; Edmund Industrial Optics Co. Ltd., NJ).
Method	Probe and target DNA solutions were charged into the microchannel by syringe pumping simultaneously.
Method	Then fluorescence intensity of target solution side and probe solution sides were measured near the outlet of the straight part of the microchannel using the above described fluorescence microscopy.
Method	Detection was evaluated with a ΔF value.
Method	Fig. 1 outlines the analysis system.
Method	Two solutions, probe and target DNA solutions, were charged into the microchannel simply by syringe pumping.
Method	In a straight microchannel, mixing the two solutions simply depends on diffusion (ca. 1 µm s–1).
Method	Therefore, double strands of target and probe DNA were formed around the interface area.
Method	The molecular weight increases by double strand formation; thereby the molecule localizes at the interface.
Method	At the curving part of the microchannel, internal force of the fluid produces laminar secondary flow within the channel.
Method	Such laminar secondary flow at the turn disrupts the interface and moves double-stranded DNA molecules to the outer side.
Method	When solutions were charged with double-stranded DNA, as shown in Fig. 1, we only have to compare the ΔF value, which is the background (B0/A0) subtracted ratio of fluorescence intensity at the probe DNA solution side (A) and target DNA solution side (B) of the microchannel.
Method	(A0 and B0 are the fluorescence intensities in the case of buffer solution instead of target DNA solution).
Background	The microchannel design is very important for this analysis method.
Background	The microchannel design in this study has been optimized by advance examination.
Result	Typical results were obtained using DNA molecules as shown in Fig. 2.
Method	First, we examined which position of the channel is suitable for detection (Fig. 3A, position a–e), using complementary sequence 3 and negative control 7.
Result	Fig. 3B shows that the complementary target gave higher intensity ratios than those of the negative control at positions c and e.
Result	On the other hand, such a difference was not observed at positions b and d.
Result	These results mean that specific detection of double-stranded DNA was enabled at the points after curves of even numbers.
Method	This can be explained by simulation of microfluidics.
Method	Laminar secondary flow disrupted the interface at the first curve, but the structural interface was restored by laminar secondary flow with opposite direction at the next curve.
Method	Thus, the difference could be observed at positions c and e, whereas no difference was obtained at positions b and d.
Result	Fig. 4 shows the results for target DNAs 1–7 at position f in two different temperature and solution conditions.
Result	At higher salt concentrations and lower temperature conditions (23 °C, 50 mM NaCl) such as Fig. 4B, ΔF values of targets 1–6, which are complementary and one base mismatch sequences are larger than those of target 7.
Result	In contrast, at lower salt concentration and higher temperature conditions (35 °C, 5 mM NaCl) such as in Fig. 4C, ΔF values of short (1) or one base mismatch (5, 6) sequences are relatively low compared to target 7.
Result	These results reflect the stability of the double strand in solution.
Problem	We examined whether target molecule length affects analysis or not.
Method	We used 10mer to 70mer DNA as the targets (1, 2, 3, and 4).
Result	Fig. 4C indicates that ΔF value increased in proportion to the target molecule length at position f.
Result	These results demonstrated that the principle of our strategy can be applied for analysis.
Problem	We also examined whether this method is applicable for single base mutation analysis or not.
Method	Experiments were performed using samples with one base mismatched sequences (5 and 6).
Result	Although the experiment was performed as in analysis of a complementary target, ΔF values were almost the same level as in the negative control 7 in Fig. 4C.
Conclusion	Thus, we could detect single base mutations; our method is applicable for such SNP analysis.
Problem	Accuracy of the analysis was also examined.
Method	The coefficient of validation for these analyses was nearly 5%.
Background	Usually, such a low coefficient of validation cannot be obtained by current technologies such as electrochemical methods utilizing immobilization procedures.
Result	In our case, simple syringe pumping might result in such high accuracy.
Result	The laminar stream in the microchannel arrives at steady state immediately.
Background	At such a steady state, there are no artifacts except for slight pulsation caused by syringe pumping.
Conclusion	Therefore our method always offers high accuracy even at small ΔF values.
Problem	We have developed a novel analysis method of sequence-selective DNA detection using microfluidics.
Method	This method does not utilize immobilization procedure, but simply uses syringe pumping.
Conclusion	By merely injecting target and probe DNA solution, we were able to detect sequence-specific binding of probe and target DNA.
Conclusion	The simple operation enables highly accurate DNA analysis: even a single base mismatch could be detected.
Background	These features might be suitable for further application of our method in biomedical fields.

Problem	Ab initio QM/MM molecular dynamics simulation of preferential K+ solvation in aqueous ammonia solution
Problem	A combined ab initio quantum mechanical/molecular mechanical (QM/MM) molecular dynamics simulation has been performed to investigate the solvation structure of K+ in 18.4% aqueous ammonia solution.
Method	The chemically most relevant region, the first solvation sphere of K+, was treated by Born–Oppenheimer ab initio quantum mechanics using LANL2DZ basis sets, while the rest of the system was described by classical pair potentials.
Result	Within the first solvation shell of K+, the QM/MM simulation reveals a polyhedral structure with an average coordination number of 7.6, consisting of 6.7 water and 0.9 ammonia molecules, compared to the corresponding value of 8.7 composed of 5.3 water and 3.4 ammonia molecules obtained by classical pair potential simulation.
Result	The QM/MM results, in contrast to the classical simulation, clearly indicate a preference for water ligands and a higher flexibility of ligand arrangements in the first solvation shell of the ion.
Background	The preference for ligands is discussed on the basis of detailed simulation results.
Result	In addition, a “structure-breaking” behavior of the ion is well recognized by the detailed analysis on ligand exchange processes and the mean residence times of the ligands surrounding the ion.
Background	Since ion solvation processes are of great importance in a wide variety of systems, hydrated ions have become an increasingly important subject of both experimental and theoretical studies.1–9
Background	In general, comparison between experiments and theories is not always straightforward because most of the experimental methods for structural analysis have to be performed with solutions of relatively high concentrations, while the theoretical approaches mostly refer to very dilute solutions.
Method	Theoretical methods, in particular Monte Carlo (MC) and molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, can provide valuable complementary information not accessible to experimental approaches both in the characterization of ion–solvent complexes and in the specific mechanism of the involved interactions.
Background	During the past decades, numerous MC and MD simulations have been carried out to evaluate hydration structures, hydration energies, mobilities, librational and vibrational spectra and other properties.
Background	However, most of the simulation works had relied on classical molecular mechanical potentials, and hence, deviation of the results from experiments was often found, strongly depending on the type and quality of the potential models employed in the simulations.10,11
Background	To provide a realistic view of the solvated ion properties, it has been shown that the model interaction potential must include polarizability and many-body nonadditive contributions.12
Method	With regard to this point, various schemes have been proposed, for example, the polarizable continuum model (PCM),13 which incorporates the many-body interactions in an average way, or a direct approach by calculating the energy hypersurface of many-body interactions and then fitting them to an analytical function.14,15
Method	Both exemplary models can provide significant improvement of the results, however, for the PCM model, a major weakness is that it can not reproduce specific interaction with the surrounding solvent, such as hydrogen bonds.16
Background	For the second model, construction of many-body potentials is rather difficult, and is hardly feasible for large molecular systems because of their complicated orientation dependence.15,17
Method	To describe molecular interactions correctly, more sophisticated simulation technique incorporating quantum mechanical algorithms, namely the combined quantum mechanical and molecular mechanical (QM/MM) method has been introduced.18–20
Method	Several hybrid QM/MM models combine either semiempirical,18,20–22 density functional,23 valence bond,24,25 or even ab initio Hartree–Fock19,26 methodology with commonly used force fields.
Method	In recent years, a “Born–Oppenheimer ab initio QM/MM dynamics” has been proposed and successfully applied for elucidating structural and dynamical properties of various ions in solutions.27–41
Method	This technique treats the active-site region, i.e. the solvation shell around the ion, quantum mechanically, while the environment consisting of further solvent molecules is described by classical molecular mechanical potentials.
Method	By this approach, the complicated many-body contributions as well as the polarization effects within the solvation sphere of the ion can be reliably included.
Background	The QM/MM results have clearly shown the important role of non-additive contributions and that inclusion of higher-order interaction terms is essential for the correct description of the solvated ions, even for monovalent ions in which many-body interactions could be expected to be weaker than in the case of di- and trivalent ions.29,30,32,33,38
Method	For ion solvation in mixed solvent systems, Born–Oppenheimer ab initio QM/MM molecular dynamics simulations have been successfully applied to Li+,32 Na+,33 Mg2+34 and Ca2+35 in aqueous ammonia solution.
Method	The results from QM/MM simulations have provided more reliable geometrical arrangements of the solvated ion structures as well as ligand preferences in good agreement with the qualitative expectation according to Lewis acid–base interactions.42–44
Background	In comparison to the results obtained by classical pair potential simulations, the QM/MM simulations have indicated that the pairwise additive potentials, which lack suitable parameterization, are obviously insufficient for the description of the structural properties of solvated ions in such a solvent mixture.
Problem	In the present work, a Born–Oppenheimer ab initio QM/MM dynamics simulation was performed to characterize the preferential solvation of K+ in aqueous ammonia solution.
Background	The biological importance of K+ is well known, e.g. in neuron signaling and osmotic stability of cells.45,46
Background	In ion channels of the nervous system, the binding of potassium to ligands is an essential part of the mechanism for message transport.47
Background	In order to understand such biological processes, detailed knowledge of ion structures in solution is required.
Background	The solvation structure of K+ in water and in ammonia has been studied by X-ray and neutron diffraction experiments4,48–52 as well as by theoretical investigations.8,9,30,53–55
Background	Experiments reported hydration numbers of K+ in the range 4–7,48–51 while a coordination number of 6 was found in ammonia.52
Background	In addition, the experiments have shown that K+ acts as “structure-breaking” ion, i.e., the presence of this ion in the solvent can be regarded rather as a perturbation of the solvent network structures.
Method	In theoretical investigations, classical and QM/MM simulations predicted hydration numbers of K+ in the range of 5–108,9,53–55 and 8.3,30 respectively.
Background	Our previous QM/MM simulation30 has shown that the structure-breaking behavior of this ion is only reproduced, if the first hydration shell is treated quantum mechanically.
Method	For the coordination number of K+ in ammonia, a classical MD simulation reported an average value of 8..756
Problem	Since no structural data for K+ in aqueous ammonia solution have been reported so far, structural information for this particular ion solvation by means of ab initio QM/MM dynamics could be expected to provide useful information regarding the functionality of this metal ion in biological systems with different coordination sites.
Method	Based on Born–Oppenheimer ab initio dynamics, the system is partitioned into a part described by quantum mechanics (QM) and another part treated by means of molecular mechanical potentials (MM).
Method	The total interaction energy of the system can be defined as Etotal = 〈ΨQM|Ĥ|ΨQM〉 + EMM + EQM–MM, where 〈ΨQM|Ĥ|ΨQM〉 refers to interactions within the solvation sphere of K+, treated by Born–Oppenheimer ab initio Hartree–Fock quantum mechanical calculations, while EMM and EQM–MM represent interactions within the MM region and between QM and MM regions, respectively, and are described by classical pair potentials.
Background	Within the QM region, the accurate description of molecular interactions at Hartee–Fock level obviously depends only on the basis set quality.
Method	The LANL2DZ basis sets57,58 were selected as a reasonable choice compromising between the quality of simulation results and the requirement of CPU time.28–30,32–35
Background	Effects of electron correlation may play some role in the interaction between the ion and solvent especially when the number of solvent molecules in the QM region increases.
Background	However, treatment at the correlated level is very time-consuming, and thus beyond the current computational feasibility.
Background	In our previous QM/MM simulation,38 these effects were found to be rather marginal even for anion–water interactions, when the stabilization energies obtained by HF single point calculations of the anions plus their first hydration shells for several selected configurations were compared to those of MP2 calculations.
Method	In the QM/MM procedure, an ab initio calculation was performed in each simulation step, providing quantum mechanical forces to be incorporated into the total force of the system.
Method	Since the exchange of solvent molecules between the QM and MM regions can occur frequently during the simulation, the forces acting on each particle in the system are switched according to the defined region upon entering or leaving of the ligand and can be defined as: Fi = Sm(r)FQM + (1 – Sm(r))FMM, where FQM and FMM are quantum mechanical and molecular mechanical forces, respectively.
Method	Sm(r) is a smoothing function,59 where r1 and r0 are the distances characterizing the beginning and the end of the QM region.
Method	Sm(r) ensures a continuous change of forces in the transition between QM and MM regions.
Method	For interactions inside the MM and between QM and MM regions, flexible models, which describe inter- and intramolecular interactions, were employed for water60,61 and ammonia.62
Method	The use of flexible models is to be favored over any of the popular rigid water and ammonia models, in order to ensure compatibility and a smooth transition, when solvent molecules move from the QM region with their full flexibility of ligand molecules to the MM region.
Background	The pair potential function for water–ammonia interactions was adopted from Tanabe and Rode.63
Method	The pair potential function for K+–H2O interactions was obtained from our previous work,30 and the pair potential function for K+–NH3 interactions was newly constructed in the present work using DZV+(d,p) basis set for NH357 and Los Alamos ECP plus DZ basis set for K+.58
Background	These basis sets are consistent with the ones used in the construction of the K+–H2O potential.
Method	The 1500 Hartree–Fock interaction energy points for various K+–NH3 configurations, obtained from Gaussian9864 calculations, were fitted to the analytical form of where A, B, C and D are the fitting parameters (see Table 1), ric denotes the distances between K+ and the i-th atom of ammonia and q are the atomic net charges.
Method	The charges on K+, N and H of ammonia were set to 1.0, –0.8022 and 0.2674, respectively.
Method	A classical molecular dynamics simulation using pair potentials was performed first, then a combined QM/MM molecular dynamics simulation starting from the equilibrium configuration obtained by the classical simulation was carried out.
Method	For the QM/MM simulation, undoubtedly, the QM region is the most expensive computational part and hence the size of it has to be a compromise between the reliability of results and the available computational resources.
Method	In general, the suitable QM size is the sphere including all ligands within the complete first solvation sphere of the ions.
Method	A too small size of the QM region can lead to artifacts, which, however, disappear, if the choice of the diameter guarantees that all molecules of the first solvation shell plus eventually exchanging ligands are included in this region.27,67
Method	This is always achieved, when the QM limit is set to the beginning or even slightly inside the second solvation shell.
Result	In this case, also an increase of width of the transition region does not make any difference for the results.
Result	As can be seen from the K–(N + O) radial distribution function (RDF) obtained by the classical simulation (Fig. 1), the first minimum of the RDF peak is located around 3.8 Å.
Method	Within this region, there are about 6–8 water and 3–4 ammonia molecules, which seem rather convenient to perform the QM/MM simulation.
Method	However, as our previous QM/MM simulation for K+ in water30 had predicted a somewhat larger hydration shell compared to the one obtained by classical pair potential simulation, a larger QM region with diameter of 8.4 Å was employed.
Method	This QM size was assumed to be large enough to ensure a smooth convergence of the quantum mechanical forces to the pair potential forces beyond the QM region.
Method	There are about 8–10 water and 3–4 ammonia molecules located within this region, leading to 8–12 min for computing the forces in each QM/MM step on a DEC Alpha XP1000 workstation.
Method	The classical and combined QM/MM simulations were performed in a canonical ensemble at 293 K. This canonical ensemble has been realized by coupling to an external temperature bath.
Method	The time step was set to 0.2 fs, which allows for explicit movement of hydrogen atoms of water and ammonia.
Method	The basic cube, with a length of 18.56 Å, contained one K+, 37 ammonia and 163 water molecules, assuming the experimental density of 18.4% aqueous ammonia solution at the given temperature (0.9398 g cm–3).
Method	The reaction-field method was employed for the treatment of long-range interactions.65
Method	This method also implies a compensation of the electrical non-neutrality of the basic box.
Method	The classical pair potential simulation started from an equilibrium configuration obtained from our previous QM/MM simulation for Ca2+ in aqueous ammonia solution.35
Method	The system was equilibrated for 80 000 steps, and the simulation was continued for another 100 000 steps for collecting configurations every 10th step.
Background	As the equilibrium configuration of a QM/MM simulation is usually not much different from that of the classically treated system, and differences refer mostly to the small subsystem of the ion and its environment, a time-span of 2–3 ps is sufficient to achieve re-equilibration, even for systems with stronger ion–solvent interactions than the one investigated here, as can be seen from the behavior of velocities and RDFs after that period.34,37,41
Method	The QM/MM simulation started with a re-equilibration for 20 000 simulation steps, followed by another 30 000 steps to collect configurations every 5th step.
Method	The 6 ps interval of our QM/MM simulation can be considered long enough for structural analysis since it has been shown that even a 2 ps simulation can deliver most of the structural and dynamical properties of similar solutions.28–30
Method	The switching function of eqn. (2) was applied within an interval of 0.2 Å (i.e., in eqn. (3), r1 = 4.0 and r0 = 4.2 Å).
Result	Fig. 1 displays and compares the over-all K–(N + O) and K–H (from both water and ammonia molecules) RDFs and their corresponding integration numbers obtained from both classical and combined QM/MM simulations.
Result	The classical simulation gives a pronounced first K–(N + O) peak at 2.93 Å, corresponding to an average coordination number of 8.7.
Result	The first solvation shell is not clearly separated from the bulk, indicating an interchange of ligand molecules between the first solvation shell of K+ and bulk.
Result	In the QM/MM simulation, a less pronounced unsymmetrical first K–(N + O) peak, with a maximum at shorter distance of 2.79 Å, is observed.
Result	The shape of the K–(N + O) peak indicates an asymmetry of the K+ solvation.
Result	The first solvation shell of K+ is also not distinctly separated from the bulk, showing even more frequent ligand interchange at the boundary between the solvation shell and bulk.
Result	An integration, calculated up to the first K–(N + O) minimum, yields an average coordination number of 7.6.
Result	In both pair potential and QM/MM simulations, a second solvation shell of K+ is not found, as can be seen from further curves of K–(N + O) RDFs.
Method	The ligand compositions of the solvation shell of K+ can be analyzed by plotting the K+–H2O and K+–NH3 RDFs and their corresponding integration numbers separately, as shown in Figs. 2 and 3, respectively.
Result	For the K+–H2O RDFs (Fig. 2), the QM/MM simulation reveals a broader unsymmetrical first K–O peak with maximum at 2.81 Å, compared to the corresponding peak at 2.75 Å of the pair potential simulation.
Result	The unsymmetrical K–O peak observed in the QM/MM simulation corresponds to weak K+–water interactions and a high mobility of water molecules in the solvation shell of K+.
Result	In addition to the broader K–O peak, a larger and broader K–H(W) peak obtained from the QM/MM simulation (Fig. 2b) supports well a high flexibility and rather freely-oriented arrangements of the water molecules.
Result	The average numbers of water molecules in the solvation shell of K+ are about 5.3 ± 0.2 and 6.7 ± 0.1 for pair potential and QM/MM simulation, respectively.
Result	For the K+–NH3 RDFs (Fig. 3), the pair potential simulation produces a sharp first K–N peak with maximum at 2.96 Å, giving an average coordination number of 3.4 ± 0.2.
Result	In the QM/MM simulation, a less pronounced unsymmetrical first K–N peak is exhibited at a much shorter K–N distance of 2.77 Å, corresponding to approximately 0.9 ammonia molecules.
Result	As in the case of K–O peak, the asymmetrical K–N peak in the QM/MM simulation also indicates a high ammonia mobility, associated with an over-all distorted structure of the solvation shell.
Result	Fig. 4 shows the probability distributions of the solvation numbers of K+, calculated up to the first minimum of the K–(N + O) RDFs.
Result	In the pair potential simulation, the first solvation shell of K+ prefers a coordination number of 8 (followed by 9 and 7 in decreasing amounts), consisting of 5 (and 6 in decreasing amount) water and 3 (followed by 4 in smaller amount) ammonia molecules.
Result	In the QM/MM simulation, the first solvation shell favors a coordination number of 7 (in addition to 8 and 6 in smaller amounts), consisting of 6 (followed by 7, 8 and 5 in smaller amounts) water and one ammonia molecule.
Result	As can be seen from Fig. 4, the 8-, 9- and 7-coordinated complexes are mostly dominant in the pair potential simulation, while numerous possible species, varying from 5- to 10-fold coordinated complexes, exist in the QM/MM simulation.
Result	In comparison to the statistical average distribution of ligands in the solution of approximately 4.4∶1 for water and ammonia molecules, respectively, the QM/MM simulation obviously indicates a preference for H2O with a water-to-ammonia ratio of 7.4∶1.
Result	In contrast to the QM/MM results, the corresponding ratio of 1.6∶1 is observed in the pair potential simulation, which reflects a preference for NH3.
Background	In our previous works, we have shown that the assumption of pairwise additive approximations for the K+(H2O)n30 and K+(NH3)n56 complexes had led to energetic errors of approximately 17% and 13%, respectively, for n = 6, and these errors increased rapidly to 32% and 20% for n = 8.
Background	Undoubtedly, the many-body contributions can play a significant role for the preferential solvation of the K+, and thus the results predicted by classical pairwise additivity are by no means sufficient for a correct description of this ion's solvation in such binary solvent systems.
Result	Fig. 5 displays the O–K–O, N–K–N and O–K–N angular distributions, calculated up to the first minimum of the K–(N + O) RDFs.
Result	In both classical and combined QM/MM simulations, the solvation shell structure of K+ is predicted to be approximately polyhedral.
Result	The rather broad angular distributions indicate the extreme lability and irregular structure of the K+ solvation.
Method	In order to describe the geometrical arrangement of the K+ solvation, the angle θ, defined by the K⋯O and K⋯N axes and the dipole vectors of ligands, has been used to investigate the preferential orientations of solvated ligands.
Result	The dipole-oriented arrangements of water and ammonia molecules within the solvation shell of the ion are given in Figs. 6.
Result	Both classical and combined QM/MM simulations point out that ammonia ligands stick more rigidly to the dipole-oriented arrangement than water molecules.
Result	In the QM/MM simulation, a more flexible arrangement is observed, in particular for water molecules.
Result	As can be seen from Fig. 6a, the QM/MM simulation clearly indicates a higher flexibility of the solvated water's orientation, proving the weak structure-forming ability of K+ even for its nearest water molecules.
Conclusion	The higher mobility of the solvated ligands, as observed in the QM/MM simulation, would increase the number and rate of ligand exchange processes.
Result	Several ligand exchange processes can be seen when the K–O and K–N distances were separately plotted during the QM/MM simulation, as shown in Figs. 7 and 8, respectively.
Result	Within the simulation time of 6 ps, 13 water and 3 ammonia molecules were involved in the exchange processes, indicating the extremely fast dynamics of the K+ solvation.
Result	For the exchange of water molecules, both associative and dissociative interchange (defined as Ia and Id) mechanisms are observed.
Result	In the case of ammonia molecules, the first exchange, which took place around 2 ps, shows the Id mechanism, while the second exchange, which occurred beyond 5 ps, seemingly represents the Ia type.
Problem	In order to estimate the rate of ligand exchange processes at K+, the mean residence times (MRT) of the ligands were evaluated within the restrictions set by the available period of the QM/MM simulation.
Result	Based on a direct accounting66 and setting the minimum time a ligand has to remain inside/outside a shell upon a migration process as t*, the MRT values of 2.1 and 1.9 ps for t* = 0.5 and of 15.3 and 5.9 ps for t* = 2.0 are obtained for water and ammonia molecules, respectively.
Background	The corresponding values for water ligands of hydrated Cs+ and for pure water66,67 are 1.7 and 1.8 ps for t* = 0.5, and 10.6 and 13.7 ps for t* = 2.0.
Conclusion	These data show the particular lability of NH3 ligands in the first shell of K+, but also that the water ligands in this shell have a similar mobility as in pure water.
Conclusion	Overall, this represents a well-recognizable structure-breaking effect, although not as pronounced as in the case of Cs+.
Background	The great lability of NH3 ligands in the neighborhood of K+ gives some valuable hints at the binding properties of this ion in biological systems involving N-binding sites.
Background	In a previous paper,30 it has been shown that the main reason of K-specific ion channels to transport this ion preferentially to Na+ is the easy removal of the ion's hydration shell.
Conclusion	The results presented here indicate in addition that O-binding sites should be considerably more competitive in K+ binding than N sites.
Problem	The combined ab initio QM/MM molecular dynamics simulation has provided more detailed information on the solvation shell structure of K+ in 18.4% aqueous ammonia solution.
Result	The QM/MM simulation has revealed a flexible polyhedral structure with an average coordination number of 7.6.
Result	The solvation shell contains approximately 6.7 water and 0.9 ammonia molecules, which reflects a clear preference for water molecules.
Result	In addition, the simulation has supplied information on the stability of the K+ solvate, in particular the “structure-breaking” behavior of the ion and its preference for O-binding sites.
Conclusion	The classical simulation based on pairwise additive approximations is apparently not adequate to reproduce well enough the flexible structure and a realistic solvation shell and, therefore, the relevance of n-body and polarization effects, even for weakly interacting ions as K+, could be demonstrated once more.

Problem	Microchip-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (microELISA) system with thermal lens detection
Problem	A microchip-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (microELISA) system was developed and interferon-γ was successfully determined.
Method	The system was composed of a microchip with a Y-shaped microchannel and a dam structure, polystyrene microbeads, and a thermal lens microscope (TLM).
Method	All reactions required for the immunoassay were done in the microchannel by successive introduction of a sample and regents.
Method	The enzyme reaction product, in a liquid phase, was detected downstream in the channel using the TLM as substrate solution was injected.
Method	The antigen-antibody reaction time was shortened by the microchip integration.
Conclusion	The limit of the determination was improved by adopting the enzyme label.
Conclusion	Moreover, detection procedures were greatly simplified and required time for the detection was significantly cut.
Conclusion	The system has good potential to be developed as a small and automated high throughput analyzer.
Method	Immunoassay, represented by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), is a well-known and important analytical method in the life sciences.
Method	It is an indispensable technique in biochemistry and clinical diagnosis fields because of its extremely high specificity and sensitivity.
Method	The conventional heterogeneous immunoassay, however, has a relatively long assay time, and involves troublesome liquid-handling procedures and many expensive antibody reagents.
Method	Moreover, automated assay systems used for clinical diagnoses require rather large apparatuses.
Problem	A microchip-based system is potentially an effective way to realize a highly sensitive analysis system which overcomes these drawbacks.
Problem	Integration of analytical systems into a microchip should bring about enhanced reaction efficiency, simplified procedures, shortened assay time, and lowered consumption of samples, reagents, and energy.
Background	Some papers have reported on miniaturization of ELISA or immunosorbent assay systems, in which antigen and antibodies are fixed on a solid surface in a microchip.1–11
Method	Most were preliminary reports that only mentioned the possibility of immunosorbent assay or an antigen-antibody reaction in a microfabricated device, however, we described a microchip-based immunosorbent assay system for determinations of some proteins with high sensitivity.2
Method	In that paper, we showed the reaction time necessary for an antigen-antibody reaction was reduced to 1/90 in the integrated system, because of size effects of the liquid microspace.
Background	Moreover, we applied this system to a clinical diagnosis system, which is based on a determination of a major tumor marker for colon cancer known as human carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA).5
Method	The system provided rapid and sensitive determination and showed a high correlation with the conventional assay in practical measurements of patients' sera.
Background	In addition, we succeeded in doing a simultaneous assay of multiple samples with a microchip which had branching parallel multichannels.7
Background	The high sensitivity of our microchip-based immunoassay system was attributable to the combination of a good labeling material, i.e. colloidal gold nanoparticles, and an ultra high sensitive detector, a thermal lens microscope (TLM).
Method	In the system, colloidal gold fixed on the surface of microbeads via an antigen-antibody complex was detected by focused laser beams.
Method	Although the method had high sensitivity, the precision was poor because of the difficulty in focusing the laser onto the top of spherical surface and the heterogeneity of the protein adsorption and antigen-antibody reaction on the small areas of the beads.
Method	Therefore, for determination of one sample, 5–10 beads had to be measured with the TLM while the laser was successively focused on the top of each bead and then the average was taken.
Background	Hence, the procedures for detection were very troublesome and time-consuming and good instrumental skills were necessary.
Background	Whereas, the reaction time required for the antigen-antibody reaction was sharply cut by microchip integration, reduction of the total assay time was limited because of the troublesome detection procedures.
Problem	Improvement of the detection scheme is effective to realize higher throughput and more precise assay.
Method	In this paper, an ELISA system was integrated into a microchip, in which peroxidase was used as a labeling material instead of colloidal gold and an enzyme reaction product was detected in a microchannel with the TLM.
Conclusion	Detecting the reaction product in a solution was much easier to do than making surface measurements and determination limit was improved by adoption of the enzyme label due to amplification of the signals derived by the enzyme reaction.
Method	Schematic illustrations of our bead-bed microELISA system are shown in Fig. 1.
Method	Polystyrene beads pre-coated with a capture antibody were put into the reaction channel of the ELISA microchip (Fig. 1-1).
Method	Next, a sample containing an antigen (Fig. 1-2), a biotinylated second antibody (Fig. 1-3), and streptavidin-peroxidase conjugate (Fig. 1-4) were introduced into the channel, successively.
Method	Finally enzyme reaction substrate solutions were continuously pumped into the channel (Fig. 1-5), while monitoring the reaction product with the TLM positioned downstream (Fig. 1-6).
Background	A dam structure is necessary to pack a definite amount of the microbeads in the microchip.
Method	In our previous paper, we reported a two-step fabrication method, i.e. the combination of laser abrasion for microchannel formation and dry etching by a fast atom beam for dam structure formation.
Method	This method, however, was troublesome and time-consuming and required expensive large equipment.
Method	For easy and rapid fabrication of the chip, we developed a one-step or two-step wet etching method in which the chip was fabricated by simply combining standard photolithography and wet chemical etching techniques.
Background	The basic etching procedures were described previously.12
Method	In the one-step method, the microchannel and dam were fabricated simultaneously.
Method	For the dam structure, a photomask with a gapped channel pattern was used (Fig. 2A).
Method	After photolithography, the gapped narrow window was opened on a Pyrex glass surface, and then the glass substrate was etched isotropically with HF solution.
Method	Two separate narrow channels appeared at first; these became wider and deeper and then came to connect to one channel with a neck as etching proceeded.
Method	By this method, microchannels and dam were simultaneously created only with a simple one-step etching.
Method	The structure image of the dam region is shown in Fig. 2B.
Method	Two channels with curved surface were connected slightly at the center of the image.
Method	Beads can be retained one side of the dam region.
Method	For the two-step method, the microchannel and dam were fabricated individually by using a different photomask for each.
Background	The former mask had a wider gap than that of the one-step method for dam region.
Background	The first wet etching was terminated before the two channels were connected.
Method	Next, photoresists that remained on the dam area were removed by the second photolithography and then the appeared glass substrate was etched to become the dam structure.
Method	Using this method, the microchannel and the dam were individually fabricated.
Method	The etched substrate was laminated with a cover plate, which had reagent inlet and outlet holes using a thermal fusion bonding method as described previously12.
Method	Phosphate buffer (PB; 1/15 M, pH 7.4) was prepared from phosphate buffer powder (Wako Pure Chemical, Osaka, Japan) and ultra pure water, and the buffer was filtered through a 0.2 µm membrane filter prior to use.
Method	Polystyrene bead (Polybead polystyrene microspheres, 15 µm, 20 µm, and 25 µm in diameter with 1% CV) suspensions were obtained from Polysciences (Warrington, PA).
Method	The beads were washed with PB prior to use.
Method	Recombinant human interferon-γ (IFN) was obtained from R&D Systems Inc. (Minneapolis, MN).
Method	For capture antibody, chromatographically purified mouse anti-recombinant human interferon-γ monoclonal antibody (R&D Systems Inc.) was used.
Method	For the second antibodies, biotinylated anti-recombinant interferon-γ polyclonal antibody from goats (R&D Systems Inc.) was used.
Method	All antibodies and the antigen were diluted with PB and used without further purification.
Method	Anti-IFN coated beads were prepared in a 500 µL microtube.
Method	The monoclonal anti-IFN solution (100 µL, 50 µg mL−1) was added to the polystyrene beads (10 µL solid), and the suspension was stirred gently at room temperature for 1 h, followed by overnight incubation at 4 °C.
Method	The coated beads were washed with PB and blocked with 0.2% casein solution for 1 h at room temperature and then washed with PB and stored at 4 °C.
Method	Streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase (HRP) conjugate was purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO).
Method	4-aminoantipyrine (AA) and H2O2 solution were obtained from Wako Pure Chemical and N-ethyl-N-(2-hydroxy-3-sulfopropyl)-3-methylaniline, sodium salt (TOOS) was from Dojindo Laboratories (Kumamoto, Japan).
Method	AA, H2O2 and TOOS are reacted by catalysis of HRP to produce red-colored product.
Method	Because the product has strong absorption at ∼530 nm, it is suitable for TLM detection using aYAG laser.
Method	To prevent nonspecific binding of proteins to the microchannel and capillary tubes, 0.2% casein (Merck, biochemistry grade) in PB, 1% bovine serum albumin (Sigma-Aldrich) in PB, or BlockAce (Dainippon Pharmaceutical, Osaka, Japan) was used as a blocking reagent.
Background	To determine very small amounts of the enzyme reaction product in a microchannel, a highly sensitive detection method with high space resolution is indispensable.
Method	We have developed a laser-induced thermal lens microscope (TLM), which is especially useful for ultra sensitive determination in a microspace.13,14
Method	The TLM was comprised of a microscope with two laser-oscillation apparatuses and other optical devices.
Method	The excitation beam was the 532 nm emission line of a YAG laser (CrystaLaser, Reno, NV, model GCL-100-S) with output power of 76 mW, and its intensity was modulated by a mechanical chopper with a modulation frequency at 1.03 kHz.
Method	A He–Ne laser (Melles Griot, Carlsbad, CA, model 05LHP171, 15 mW) with an emission line of 632.8 nm was used for the probe beam.
Method	The two beams were made coaxial by a dichroic mirror, and tightly focused by an objective lens (Nikon, CF IC EPI Plan 20×, N.A.
Method	0.46).
Method	The transmitted beams were collected by a condenser lens and filtered.
Method	Only the probe beam intensity was monitored with a photodiode.
Method	The pre-amplified signal from the photodiode was synchronously amplified with a lock-in amplifier LI-575 (NF Corp., Yokohama, Japan).
Method	The liquid flow was controlled with a microsyringe pump (KD Scientific, Boston, MA) and Hamilton gastight syringes with untreated fused silica capillary tubing and capillary column connectors (GL Science, Tokyo, Japan).
Method	Fused silica capillaries were connected to inlet and outlet holes of the microchip.
Method	The capillaries for reagent introduction were connected to syringes, and the outlet capillary was connected to a syringe for suction or to a waste reservoir.
Method	Before the assay, the inner walls of the capillaries and the microchannel were blocked with the blocking reagent for 1 h, and then this was replaced with PB.
Method	A change of supplied reagents could be achieved simply by changing syringes.
Method	During the enzyme reaction, the microchip temperature was controlled with a PE120 Peltier Heating and Freezing Stage (Linkam Scientific Instruments, Surrey, UK) which was mounted on the TLM.
Method	To introduce the beads pre-coated with anti-IFN into the microchip, an aliquot of the bead suspension was placed in one inlet hole of the microchip, and then the beads were moved to the dam region by suction from the outlet hole while the other inlet was kept closed (Fig. 3).
Method	This procedure was repeated until the packed bead channel (1 cm in length) was completely filled.
Method	Excess beads were washed out by flushing PB from one inlet to the other inlet.
Method	Then, sample solution containing IFN was introduced from one inlet into the packed bead channel at 1 µL min−1 for 10 min for the first antigen-antibody reaction.
Method	Next, PB, biotinylated anti-IFN, PB, and streptavidin-peroxidase conjugate were injected into the microchannel successively from the inlet (Fig. 1).
Method	Solution flow rates were adjusted to 100 µL min−1 for PB washing and for solution exchange, and they were 1 µL min−1 for the other reagents during the reaction.
Method	After the reaction, the solution in the microchannel was replaced with PB, and then substrate solutions were introduced from inlet holes.
Method	A mixture of TOOS and H2O2 was introduced from one inlet and AA was introduced from the other, all at the same flow rate.
Method	The resulting product was continuously detected using the TLM downstream.
Method	Signal intensity was recorded after reaching a plateau.
Method	After the measurement, the beads were removed from the microchip by a reverse flow of PB and the microchannel was washed with 0.1 M NaOH solution.
Method	Thus, the microchip could be used repeatedly.
Method	Microchip-based immunosorbent assay using colloidal gold as a labeling material was performed as described previously7.
Background	A glass microchip suitable for ELISA was designed and fabricated.
Method	The chip had two inlet holes, a Y-shaped channel, a dam, a detection area, and an outlet hole (Fig. 3).
Method	Injection of a reagent or a sample solution was from an inlet using the syringe pump.
Method	Because premixing of the three substrates might bring about some undesirable progression of the reaction outside of the chip without the enzyme, substrates were introduced from two inlets separately; one solution was a mixture of TOOS and H2O2, and the other was AA.
Method	The two solutions were mixed in the packed bead area (1 cm long) which was from the mixing point of the Y-shaped channel to the dam.
Result	The Y-shaped channel was suitable not only for mixing of the substrate solutions, but also for packing a definite amount of beads in the microchannel easily.
Method	The dam structure was fabricated by the one-step or two-step wet etching method.
Background	Any dimensions of the microchannel and dam could be altered by changing the gap width of the photomask and etching time.
Method	The one-step method required only one photomask, one photolithography and one etching process to fabricate both a microchannel and dam.
Result	However, accurate control of the channel depth of the dam was technically difficult for a narrow neck especially at depth of less than 10 µm because of unstable etching rate.
Conclusion	Therefore this method was suitable for beads with a diameter greater than 20 µm.
Method	For smaller beads, the two-step method was suitable, because the second etching process for the dam was fully controllable.
Result	The microchannel was 200 µm and 90 µm in width and depth, respectively, whereas the depth of the dam region was dependent on each experiment.
Background	In our previous paper, we used microbeads with 45 µm diameter for the microchip immunoassay using colloidal gold as a labeling material, because it is very difficult to focus a laser beam on the top of small beads.
Method	In the microELISA system, however, specific interface area (S/V), which is defined as surface area of the beads to liquid phase volume ratio, is very important for enzyme reaction rate, because S/V is directly proportional to the amount of the enzyme fixed in the chip.
Method	Therefore a large S/V is favorable for high amplification rate of the enzyme reaction, which means high signal intensity.
Background	Although bead diameter is apparently inversely proportional to S/V, smaller beads often led to problems in the assay.
Background	The most critical problem was a considerable increase of backpressure at the solution introduction procedure.
Background	Moreover, removal of air bubbles, which accidentally contaminated the packed bead region, was also very difficult in the case of smaller beads.
Result	After detailed studies, we concluded that the optimum bead diameter was 25 µm in our system.
Result	By using 25 µm beads, a strong signal could be obtained without any problems.
Background	Therefore microchips made by both one-step and two-step methods could be used for the assays.
Background	The reaction time required for the antigen-antibody reaction was remarkably cut in the bead-bed microchip-based immunoassay system as described previously.
Result	In the present microELISA system, the time to achieve equilibrium for the antigen-antibody reaction or the biotin-avidin reaction was also 10 min (data not shown).
Method	Therefore, in this study, every reaction time was fixed at 10 min.
Result	For the best reproducible results, reagent concentration was set at 1 µg mL−1 or 10 µg mL−1 for the biotinylated second antibody or the streptavidin-peroxidase conjugate, respectively.
Method	In the last step of the microELISA, the reaction of the HRP with TOOS, AA, and H2O2 was carried out in the packed bead area of the microchip.
Result	The enzyme reaction could be performed in both continuous flow and stopped flow modes.
Result	In the stopped flow mode, after the microchannel including the packed bead area was completely filled with the substrate solutions, the enzyme reaction proceeded for an appropriate time with the liquid flow stopped.
Method	The resulting product, dissolved in the solution, was pushed downstream by the syringe pump and detected with the TLM.
Problem	We expected that the optimum amplification could be easily obtained by changing the reaction time with minimum consumption of reagents.
Result	Reproducible results, however, could not be obtained due to significant molecular diffusion of the product and difficulty of completely stopping the liquid flow.
Conclusion	Therefore, we concluded the stopped flow method was not suitable for the current assay system.
Method	In the continuous flow mode, two substrate solutions, a mixture of TOOS and H2O2, and an AA solution, were introduced from two inlets with the same flow rate.
Method	In our microELISA system, the enzyme reaction time was inversely proportional to the flow rate because the volume of the reaction area was fixed.
Result	Clearly, a slower flow rate brought a longer reaction time and higher signal intensity (Fig. 4).
Result	It is, however, very difficult to realize a constant stable flow at low flow rate, typically slower than 0.01 µL min−1 for each solution, because of poor performance of the microsyringe pump.
Conclusion	Therefore we concluded that the best flow rate of each solution was 0.02 µL min−1.
Method	Turnover of the enzyme reaction is strongly dependent on the reaction temperature.
Method	Precise control to the optimum temperature is recommended for reliable and highly sensitive determination.
Problem	We monitored the signal intensity of the enzyme reaction product at various temperatures to get the temperature dependency of the reaction rate (Fig. 5).
Result	Not only the reaction rate, but the thermal lens signal was also affected by the solution temperature; higher temperatures led to the higher signals.
Result	Maximum signal intensity was obtained at 55 °C.
Problem	Since the plotted temperatures were surface temperatures of the temperature control stage of the microscope, actual solution temperature might be lower.
Conclusion	From this result, we concluded that the optimum temperature of the stage during the enzyme reaction was 55 °C.
Problem	IFN was determined with the developed microELSA system.
Method	The antigen-antibody reactions and the biotin-avidin reaction were done with a 10 min injection of sample solution, the biotinylated second antibody solution, and the streptavidin-peroxidase conjugate solution, respectively, with a flow rate of 1 µL min−1, followed by 30 s washing with PB at 100 µL min−1.
Method	The enzymatic reaction was performed at 55 °C with a flow rate of 0.02 µL min−1.
Result	The calibration curves of IFN are shown in Fig. 6.
Result	The sample containing 0.1 ng mL−1 (6 pM) IFN had a clear TLM signal, whereas the determination limit by the microchip immunoassay using colloidal gold as a labeling material was 1 ng mL−1 (60 pM).
Result	In the colloidal gold method, measurements of 5–10 beads and averaging were necessary for one assay, because signal intensity obtained from each bead varied greatly.
Result	Therefore 10–60 min were required for detection of one sample, and the required time was dependent on the packing conditions of the beads and instrument operator's skill.
Result	Furthermore, because obtained data were rather dispersed, improvement of the lower limit of determination was very difficult.
Result	On the contrary, in the microELISA system proposed in this paper, the measured signal was derived from all the beads, and then there was very little variation during the measurement.
Result	Hence, only 10 s was required for measurement of one sample, though a 2–3 min wait was required for the signal to reach a plateau.
Result	In total, 35 min were required for the microELISA including three reactions and detection, while several hours or one day would be required in the conventional bulk-scale ELISA or 40–90 min in the colloidal gold-based microchip immunoassay.
Result	Moreover, detection of the enzyme reaction product in the liquid phase with the TLM was much easier than detection of the colloidal gold fixed on the surface of the beads, and no special instrumental operating skills were necessary.
Conclusion	Therefore, by adoption of the enzyme, the work burden was greatly reduced.
Result	With the microELISA system, a rapid and sensitive assay of a protein could be realized.
Conclusion	By using an enzyme as a labeling material, laborious detection tasks were eliminated, and assay time and data error were reduced.
Background	Additionally no special skills were needed for the assay.
Problem	Though the microELISA was demonstrated here to be useful in a single channel assay, its merits will be fully exploited in a parallel multichannel system.
Background	In the previous colloidal gold method, the multichannel system could realize high throughput assays due to simultaneous reactions.7
Background	However, improvement of the total throughput of the assay was limited because of difficulties with the detection.
Conclusion	By adopting the ELISA in the multichannel system, measurements can be made in a lot of channels laid in parallel, simultaneously or successively in a very short time.
Conclusion	Therefore, throughput of the detection will be much improved.
Conclusion	If the detection operations become easier and no special skills are required for the determination, an automated detector becomes possible.
Background	We expect an automated multichannel analyzer can be realized on the basis of the microELISA system in the near future.
Background	This automated microELISA system will be a small, high throughput, and high sensitivity system and it will be suitable for ubiquitous assays including point-of care testing.

Problem	Electrochemical transport properties of a cone-shaped nanopore: revisited
Background	There are reports in the literature that a single cone-shaped nanopore generated in a polymer foil separating two equally concentrated dilute aqueous potassium chloride solutions can reach high and low stationary electrical conductivity states respectively depending on the sign of the applied electrical potential.
Background	On the basis of published data it has been argued (D. Woermann, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2003, 5, 1853) that this phenomenon can be understood in terms of a well established model describing the electrochemical transport properties of polyelectrolyte membranes (“model of the membrane with narrow pores”).
Problem	In the present contribution experimental evidence is presented which gives strong support to these arguments using a model system.
Method	Based on the “model of the membrane with narrow pores” a composite membrane is constructed mimicking the structure and electrochemical function of an ensemble of conical nanopores.
Conclusion	It is found that the characteristic electrochemical transport property of the composite membrane is that of a cone-shaped nanopore.
Background	In recent publications observations of a non-ohmic (diode-like) current voltage characteristic of membranes carrying a single cone-shaped nanopore in contact with equally concentrated dilute aqueous potassium chloride solutions have been reported.1–4
Background	The nanopore is produced by an advanced track etch technique.
Background	The following values characterizing the pore geometry are given in the literature: length of the pore, δ ≈ 10 μm; diameter of the base of the conical pore, 2rbase≈500 nm; tip of the conical pore 2rtip ≈ 2 nm–10 nm.
Background	It has to be kept in mind that the diameter of the tip of the cone-shaped pore is not well defined.
Background	It cannot be smaller than the diameter of the latent ion track in the membrane matrix.
Background	For polymeric organic materials an estimated value of the diameter of a latent ion track of about 10 nm is given.5
Background	In ref. 6 the transport properties of single cone-shaped pores described in the literature are compared with predictions of the “model of the membrane with narrow pores”.
Background	It is concluded that these properties can be rationalised on the basis of this model.
Background	The arguments in ref. 6 and ref. 7 are based on three assumptions:8,9 (a) The internal surface of a cone-shaped pore carries negative charged groups (–COO− groups) which are generated by the etching process.
Background	The fixed charges are compensated by mobile counterions (e.g. K+, Na+ ions) (b) In the narrow tip region of the cone-shaped pore there exists a homogeneous positive electrical charge density ρtip which is formed by the thermal motion of the mobile counterions (ρtip = −FωXtip; ωXtip = −(c+ − c−)tip: F, Faraday number; ω, sign of the fixed charges, here ω = −1; Xtip, fixed ion concentration in the tip region ([mol cm−3]); (ci)tip, concentration of mobile on species i in the tip region).
Background	The concentrations of the mobile ions in the tip region determine the electrical conductivity of the pore fluid in that region.
Background	It is independent of the direction of the electrical current flow across the tip region.
Background	(c) In the wide region of the cone-shaped pore the positive space charge density does not extend into the lumen of the wide region.
Background	It is limited to a narrow region near the internal pore wall.
Background	The state of the pore fluid away from the region close to the pore wall is not influenced by the presence of the positive space charge.
Background	Under electrical current flow across the pore the stationary electrical conductivity of the pore fluid (and the stationary the electrolyte concentration) in the wide region of the cone-shaped pore will depend on the direction of the flow of electrical current.
Background	This is caused by the fact that value of electrical transference number t+,tip of the counterions in the tip region is larger than the corresponding transference number t+,wide in the wide region of the pore (e.g.cbulk/Xtip ≪1,t+,tip ≈ 1; t+,wide ≈ 0.5; free solution; cbulk, electrolyte concentration in the bulk phase of the composite membrane).
Method	In this contribution results of experiments are reported which are carried out with a composite track etched membrane mimicking the structure and function of a conical pore.
Method	The composite consists of two membranes carrying straight track-etched pores with the same pore diameter (e.g. ≈100 nm) arranged in series (see insert in Fig. 1 and Fig. 2).
Method	The track-etched pores of the (ω = −1)-membrane (membrane m2) are filled with a polyelectrolyte gel carrying negatively charged fixed ionic groups (- SO3−groups).
Method	This membrane is assumed to model the electrochemical transport properties of tip region of a cone-shaped pore.
Method	The pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane (membrane m1) are not treated.
Method	That membrane is assumed to model the electrochemical transport properties of the wide region of a cone-shaped pore.
Method	The influence of the fixed -COO− charges at the internal surface of the wide pores of membrane m1 on the state of the pore fluid is neglected.
Method	The matrix of the membranes used in this study consists of a poly(ethylene terephthathalate) foil (abbreviated PET) with a thickness of about δ ≈ 10μm.
Method	Track etched membranes with straight pores are produced from this foil.
Method	Three sets of membranes with different pore diameters are used (effective pore diameters: 50 nm, 100nm, and 200 nm; pore density n ≈ (2.5 ± 0.5) × 108 cm−2).
Method	Several membranes are cut from stocks of irradiated and etched PET foils.
Method	The stocks (charge number, 586) have been produced by Apel (Felerov Laboratory of Nuclear Reactions, JINR, 141980, Russia).
Method	Both sides of several track membranes with the same pore diameter are treated with a solution of perfluorinated ion exchange powder Nafion (5 wt.% in a isopropanol/water mixture; Sigma Aldrich Com).
Method	Nafion carries -SO3− groups and is insoluble in water.
Method	This treatment has the purpose to fill the pores of the membrane with a gel carrying negatively charged ionic groups.10
Method	The success of this treatment is checked by measuring the electrical potential difference Δφ0 (=φ′ − φ ″)0 across a treated membrane [(ω = −1- membrane] separating two bulk phases formed by two aqueous NaCl solutions of different compositions using two identical Ag/AgCl /KCl (aq)// electrodes with NaCl salt bridges ((′), left bulk phase; (″), right bulk phase).
Method	The NaCl concentration c′s in the left bulk phase is lower by a factor of 10 than the corresponding NaCl concentration c″s in the right bulk phase.
Method	The mean electrolyte concentration of the solution 〈cs〉 is small compared with the estimated fixed ion concentration X in the NAFION gel plugging up the pores of the track etched membrane gel.
Result	Values of Δφ0 in the range 45 mV<Δφ0<52 mV are found (c′s = 5 × 10−3c+; c″s = 5 × 10−2c+; c+ = 1 mol dm−3).
Result	This indicates that from an electrochemical point of view the track etched (ω = −1)-membranes have the properties of a cation ion exchange membrane predominantly permeable to counterions (Na+ ions)(Δφ0 = (2.303RT/F)log(c″s/c′s); (T ≈ 300 K; R, universal gas constant; F, Faraday number; T, thermodynamic temperature; c″s/c′s = 10; Δφ0 ≈ +58 mV).
Method	Under electrical current flow the fraction t+ ( = I+/I) of the electrical current I carried by the Na+ ions across the (ω = −1)-membrane is expected to be close to t+ ≈ 1.
Result	Independent experiments show that the I–Δφ curve of the track-etched (ω = −1)-membranes prepared in a manner just described are symmetric (linear) with respect to a change of the direction of an electrical current flow.
Result	Corresponding measurements of the membrane potential Δφ0 of untreated track etched (ω = 0)-membranes show that the observed electrical potential differences Δφ0 is small (Δφ0<5 mV).
Result	It is identified with a diffusion potential.
Conclusion	It is concluded that the electrochemical state of the electrolyte solution filling the pores of the untreated membranes is not influence by the presence of the fixed -COO− charges at the pore wall.
Method	Under electrical current flow the fraction of the electrical current I carried by the Na+ across (ω = 0)-membranes is expected to be close to that in free solution (for c′s = c″s, t+ ≈ 0.5).
Method	A composite track etched membrane is formed by placing an untreated (ω = 0) -track etched membrane and a treated (ω = −1)-track etched membrane wetted by distilled water with their flat sides on top of each other.
Method	Care is taken to prevent air bubbles to be trapped between the surfaces of the two membranes.
Method	The composite membrane is placed between two equally concentrated and mechanically stirred NaCl solutions (c′s = c″s = 5 × 10−2c+; Plexiglass cells with rubber gaskets; volume of each bulk phase, 160 cm3; effective membrane area a = 2.5 cm2).
Method	Two titanium grid electrodes with a layer of platinum deposited onto the surface of the grid are immersed into the bulk phases.
Method	These electrodes are used to apply an electrical current under galvanostatic conditions.
Method	The total net amount of electrical charge transported across a membrane during the measurements of one stationary current- voltage curve is so small that a possible influence of pH changes in the bulk phases caused by the reactions at the electrodes on the electrochemical measurements can be neglected.
Method	Two identical Ag/AgCl/KCl(aq)// electrodes in contact with Luggin capillaries filled with the solution contained in the bulk phase are used to measure the electrical potential difference across the membrane.
Method	The tips of the two Luggin capillaries are positioned reproducibly opposite to each other at a fixed distance from the surface of the composite membrane.
Result	A typically stationary I–Δφ curve of a composite membrane with a pore diameter of 100 nm is shown in Fig. 1.
Result	The non-ohmic character of the I–Δφ curve is clearly visible.
Method	The insert in Fig. 1 shows schematically the experimental set up.
Method	It also shows schematically the corresponding orientation of a single cone-shaped pore for which a similarly shaped I–Δφ is found.1–3
Result	The shape of corresponding I–Δφ curves of composite track etched membranes with diameters of 50 nm and 200 nm is very similar to that of a composite membrane with a pore diameter of 100 nm.
Result	These curves are not shown.
Result	The stationary I–Δφ curve shown in Fig. 1 indicates that a composite tack-etched membrane reach high conductivity states when the electrical potential difference Δφ (=(φ′ − φ″)) across the membrane has negative values.
Result	Positive charge carriers (Na+ ions) are transported from the right bulk phase into the left bulk phase.
Result	In the pores of the (ω = −1)-membrane the electrical current is transported predominantly by Na+ ions (cbulk/Xtip ≪1; c+,tip ≫ c−,tip).
Result	They are the counterions of the fixed charges of the polyelectrolyte gel filling the pores (t+(ω = −1)-membrane ≈ 1).
Result	This leads to an increase of the concentration of NaCl in the pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane.
Result	Within the pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane the electrical current is carried by Na+ ions as well as by Cl− ions (t+(ω = 0)-membrane ≈ 0.5).
Result	A stationary high conductivity state of the composite membrane is reached when the concentration profile of NaCl in the (ω = 0)-membrane has reached a time independent value.
Result	In this state the mean NaCl concentration in the pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane is higher than the NaCl concentration in the bulk phases.
Result	This is shown schematically in Fig. 2.
Result	The composite membrane reaches a low conductivity state when the electrical potential difference Δφ = (φ′ − φ″) across the membrane has positive values and positive charge carries (Na+ ions) are transported from the left into the right bulk phase.
Result	Since the value of transference number of the Na+ions within the (ω = − 1)- membrane is higher than that within the (ω = 0)-membrane the NaCl concentration in the pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane decreases.
Result	A stationary low conductivity state of the composite membrane is established when the concentration profile of NaCl in the (ω = 0)-membrane has reached a time independent value.
Result	In this state the mean NaCl concentration in the (ω = 0)-membrane is lower than the NaCl concentration in the bulk phases (see Fig. 2).
Conclusion	In summary, the transition from a high conductivity state to a low conductivity state is caused mainly by changes of the mean electrolyte concentration and consequently by the electrical conductivity in the pores of the (ω = 0)-membrane.
Method	The (ω = 0)-membrane and the (ω = −1)-membrane are not bound together permanently but are separated by a thin film of an aqueous solution.
Method	Furthermore, most pores of he composite membrane do not run across both membranes uninterruptedly.
Method	These complications can be taken into account by assigning an effective thickness to the (ω = 0)-membrane which is larger than its geometrical thickness.
Method	This does not influence the interpretation the stationary I–Δφ curve just described.
Method	Under electrical current flow an electroosmotic volume flow Jv across the (ω = −1)-membrane could take place (Δφ > 0, Jv directed from left to right; (Δφ < 0, Jv directed from right to left).
Method	This would not change the interpretation given because stationary I–Δφ values are considered.
Method	Under electrical current flow a change of concentration of NaCl will occur in the region to the right of the phase boundary (ω = − 1)-membrane/ bulk phase (″) at the mouth of the pores filled with the polyelectrolyte gel plugs.
Method	This concentration change is caused by the change of the electrical transference number of the Na+ ions at this phase boundary.
Method	It is argued that the influence of this concentration polarisation on the shape of the I-Δφ curve can be expected to be small.
Method	The solid angle for the transport of NaCl toward the mouths of the pores at Δφ < 0 and away from the mouths of the pores for Δφ > 0 is large compared with the corresponding solid angle within the (ω = −1)-membrane.
Method	This minimises the possible influence of a concentration polarisation at the interface (ω = −1)-membrane/ bulk phase (″).
Background	It has been argued in refs. 6 and 7 that the wide region and the tip region of a single cone-shaped nanopore have different electrochemical transport properties and that the combination of both properties generate the typical non-ohmic electrical current/voltage characteristic of a pore.
Background	It has been argued further that the “model of the membrane with narrow pores” can be used to describe thee transport properties of the two regions.
Problem	To test this concept experimentally a composite membrane with two membranes (m1 and m2) arranged in series is constructed.
Method	Membrane m1 is prepared to have the electrochemical properties of the wide region of the cone-shaped pore.
Method	Membrane m2 is prepared to have the electrochemical properties of the wide region of the cone-shaped pore.
Result	When the composite membrane separates two equally concentrated dilute aqueous potassium chloride solutions it reaches high and low stationary electrical conductivity states respectively depending on the sign of the electrical potential difference applied across the composite membrane.
Conclusion	This experimental finding strongly supports the arguments presented in ref. 6 and ref. 7: In deed, the electrochemical transport properties of a cone-shaped nanopore reported in refs. 1–4 can be explained on the basis of the “model of the membrane with narrow pores”.

Problem	The role of the radical-complex mechanism in the ozone recombination/dissociation reaction
Problem	The data bases for low-pressure rate coefficients of the dissociation of O3 and the reverse recombination of O with O2 in the bath gases M = He, Ar, N2, CO2 and SF6 are carefully analyzed.
Method	At very high temperatures, the rate constants have to correspond solely to the energy transfer (ET) mechanism.
Result	On condition that this holds for Ar and N2 near 800 K, average energies transferred per collision of −〈ΔE〉/hc = 18 and 25 cm−1 are derived, respectively.
Problem	Assuming an only weak temperature dependence of 〈ΔE〉 as known in similar systems, rate coefficients for the ET-mechanism are extrapolated to lower temperatures and compared with the experiments.
Conclusion	The difference between measured and extrapolated rate coefficients is attributed to the radical complex (RC) mechanism.
Conclusion	The derived rate coefficients for the RC-mechanism are rationalized in terms of equilibrium constants for equilibria of van der Waals complexes of O (or O2) with the bath gases and with rate coefficients for oxygen abstraction from these complexes.
Conclusion	The latter are of similar magnitude as rate coefficients for oxygen isotope exchange which provides support for the present interpretation of the reaction in terms of a superposition of RC- and ET-mechanisms.
Result	We obtained rate coefficients for the ET-mechanism of kETrec,0/[Ar] = 2.3 × 10−34 (T/300)−1.5 and kETrec,0/[N2] = 3.5 × 10−34 (T/300)−1.5 cm6 molecule−2 s−1 and rate coefficients for the RC-mechanism of kRCrec,0/[Ar] = 1.7 × 10−34 (T/300)−3.2 and kRCrec,0/[N2] = 2.5 × 10−34 (T/300)−3.3 cm6 molecule−2 s−1.
Result	The data bases for M = He, CO2 and SF6 are less complete and only approximate separations of RC- and ET-mechanism were possible.
Problem	The consequences of the present analysis for an analysis of isotope effects in ozone recombination are emphasized.
Background	The thermal recombination reactionO + O2 + M → O3 + Mand the reverse thermal dissociation of ozoneO3 + M → O + O2 + Mhave been studied extensively in experiments covering the temperature range 80–3000 K, the pressure range 10−4–103 bar, and a large number of bath gases M. Experiments up to 1973 have been summarized in .ref. 1
Background	Later recombination experiments were discussed in CODATA/IUPAC evaluations like refs. 2–4 or in NASA evaluations like .ref. 5
Background	There have been only few later dissociation studies such as summarized in the present work.
Background	Combining recombination and dissociation studies by the help of the equilibrium constant,6 a large body of data exist for the recombination/dissociation reaction (1) and (−1) which wait for a quantitative analysis.
Background	Applying standard unimolecular rate theory to the data available in 1979, the treatment given in refs. 7–9 did not reveal anything unusual, except the conclusion that collisional energy transfer was fairly inefficient.
Background	The picture changed when recombination experiments were extended down to 80 K in refs. 10 and 11 and up to pressures of 103 bar in .ref. 11
Background	The pressure dependence did not show the falloff behaviour of a typical unimolecular reaction and the temperature dependence below 300 K was much stronger than expected for a unimolecular reaction governed by the energy transfer (ET) mechanism, i.e. a mechanism following the schemeA + B → AB*AB* → A + BAB* → AB + MThe situation in ref. 11 was rationalized by suggesting that the reaction at low temperatures was dominated by the radical-complex (RC) or Chaperon mechanism, i.e. a mechanism following the schemeA + M → AMAM → A + MAM + B → AB + Mand that only at high temperatures the ET-mechanism took over.
Background	The rates for the two mechanisms were estimated at least semiquantitatively, providing a rational interpretation of the experimental observations.
Background	The transition between the RC- and the ET-mechanism was suggested to happen near 200 K for M = He and near 400 K for M = Ar and N2.
Background	Since 1990 attention has shifted away from the absolute rates for reactions (1) and (−1) towards an interpretation of unusual isotope effects in the recombination reaction (1) such as they are of great interest for atmospheric chemistry, see e.grefs. 12–14..
Background	Theoretical attempts to explain the observed isotope effects have been numerous, see e.grefs. 15–18.; however, mostly the ET-mechanism was employed.
Background	The ET-mechanism in ref. 17 was also used to reproduce absolute values of the recombination rate coefficients between 130–300 K. However, much larger collision efficiencies for energy transfer had to be employed than suggested in .ref. 11
Background	Looking only at the limited temperature range considered in ref. 17 does not appear sufficient to solve the problem.
Background	In any case, one cannot expect to explain the isotope effects without understanding the whole body of available dissociation/recombination data.
Background	The question of an adequate interpretation of isotope effects and rate data for reactions (1) and (−1), therefore, to the present authors remains open.
Background	Both isotope effects and ozone recombination rates are of large importance for atmospheric chemistry.
Background	They are interconnected and have to be analyzed together.
Background	Other theoretical studies of the recombination reaction in terms of the energy transfer mechanism19 apparently were too simplified to explain the experimental rates.
Background	A single theoretical attempt to explain the recombination rates in terms of the RC-mechanism20 missed the experimental rates by one order of magnitude.
Background	The reason why we come back 15 years after ref. 11 to an interpretation of ozone dissociation/recombination rates is twofold.
Background	Our knowledge on the ozone potential energy surface has been improved very much (see .refs. 21–23)
Background	In addition, we have collected experience with the analysis of the radical-complex mechanism in other reaction systems, see e.gref. 24..
Background	Furthermore, theoretical work with the new ab initio potential on oxygen isotope exchange in the reaction O + O2 → O2 + O,25 on collisional energy transfer of highly vibrationally excited ozone26 as well as on the RC-mechanism in ozone recombination27 seems to fall in line with our analysis from .ref. 11
Background	It, therefore, appears advisable to reanalyze more carefully the available data base of dissociation/recombination rate coefficients on the basis of our improved knowledge of molecular parameters.
Problem	At this stage, we focus attention on the low-pressure range only because that range is difficult enough to understand.
Method	Our strategy is as follows: we first consider measurements at the highest available temperatures and assume that here the reaction is dominated by the ET-mechanism.
Method	Employing state-of-the art unimolecular rate theory to these data, we derive the average energy 〈ΔE〉 transferred per collision.
Method	This quantity then is the only parameter from the ET-mechanism which needs to be fitted empirically because theoretical determinations are not yet sufficiently reliable for cases like O3.
Method	In agreement with other experimental systems governed by the ET-mechanism, we assume that 〈ΔE〉 has only a weak temperature dependence.
Method	This allows one to extrapolate the rate coefficients for the ET-mechanism towards lower temperatures.
Method	A comparison with the experimental rate coefficients at lower temperatures then leads to the RC-contribution of the rate.
Method	The derived rate coefficients for the RC-mechanism finally are analyzed in terms of O–M and O2–M radical-complex equilibrium constants and rate coefficients for the reactions OM + O2 → O3 + M or O2M + O → O3 + M. These results are compared with analogous quantities of other RC-systems like those investigated in .ref. 24
Problem	The consequences of our analysis for an understanding of the pressure dependence and of isotope effects finally are indicated.
Method	The ET-mechanism of reaction (1) can be characterized symbolically by the steps O + O2 → O3*O3* → O + O2O3* + M → O3 + M.For dissociation, there is the additional stepO3 + M → O3* + Mwhile step (2) is absent.
Problem	In the present work we only consider the low-pressure range of the reaction (termolecular for recombination, bimolecular for dissociation).
Method	In this case, the limiting low-pressure rate coefficients (pseudo-second-order for recombination and pseudo-first-order for dissociation) are written symbolically askrec,0 = k3[M](k2/k−2)andkdiss,0 = k−3[M] = k3[M]([O3*]/[O3])eqwhile the equilibrium constant is given byKeq = krec,0/kdiss,0 = k2k3/k−2k−3.By analytically solving the steady-state master equation of the dissociation28 and the recombination29 reaction, eqn. (5) takes the formwith the overall collision frequency Z for energy transfer, the collision efficiency βc, the threshold energy E0(J) as a function of angular momentum (quantum number J) and the equilibrium population f(E,J) as a function of J and the energy E. The sum and the integral ∑∫ in eqn. (7) correspond to ([O3*]/ [O3])eq in eqn. (5).
Method	The solution of the master equation allows one to relate βc with the average energy 〈ΔE〉 transferred per collision, for which βc/(1 − βc1/2) ≈ −〈ΔE〉/FEkTwas derived in .ref. 28
Method	For the sake of transparency, the sum and the integral ∑∫ were expressed in factorized form bykdiss,0 = Z[M]βc(ρvib,h(E0)kT/Qvib)FEFanhFrot exp(−E0/kT) in refs. 8 and 9.
Method	In this expression one has the harmonic vibrational density of states ρvib,h(E0) and the vibrational partition function Qvib, while the factors FE, Fanh and Frot account for the energy dependence of ρvib,h(E), for vibrational anharmonicity, and for rotational effects including the influence of E0(J), respectively.
Method	With the equilibrium constantKeq = Q(O3)/[Q(O)Q(O2) exp(−E0/kT)],eqn.
Method	(9) leads to where the partition functions Q contain translational, rotational, vibrational and electronic contributions.
Method	The various factors in eqns. (10) and (11) in refs. 8, 9 and 11 have been calculated on the basis of the then available knowledge of the molecular parameters.
Method	By comparison with the experiments finally βc and, through eqn. (8), 〈ΔE〉 were fitted.
Method	E.g., −〈ΔE〉/hc = (20 ± 10) cm−1 in ref. 11 were derived for M = He, Ar and N2 near 800 K. These values were found to be in fair agreement with the results from classical trajectory calculations of refs. 30 and 31.
Background	The analysis from ref. 17 gave much larger values, being around 200 cm−1 for deactivating collisions which would correspond8 to about −〈ΔE〉/hc ≈ 100 cm−1 at 300 K. The present analysis disputes such interpretation.
Method	Because the characterization of the ET-contribution to krec,0 is a central element of our interpretation, we repeat the calculation of the factors in eqns. (10) and (11) on the basis of the improved molecular parameters available today.
Background	The calculation of the various factors is elaborated in the Appendix.
Method	The resulting rate coefficients even over the large temperature range 80–3000 K can be well approximated by a krec,0 ∝ T−n dependence with a temperature independent exponent n. 〈ΔE〉 is fitted by the experimental values at 800 K and then used without further change.
Method	The assumption of a nearly temperature independent 〈ΔE〉 appears justified, if one looks at related dissociation/recombination reactions being evaluated by the same procedure.
Background	E.g., the well studied recombination H + O2 + M → HO2 + M in the bath gases M = Ar and N2 in ref. 32 over the temperature range 220–1500 K was analyzed in the same way as the present treatment; values of −〈ΔE〉/hc = 21 (T/300)+0.1 cm−1 for M = Ar and of 60 (T/300)−0.2 cm−1 for M = N2 were derived.
Background	Likewise, the evaluation of the reaction H + CH3 + M → CH4 + M over the temperature range 1000–5000 K with M = Ar33 led to −〈ΔE〉/hc = 50 (T/300)0±0.3 cm−1 while, for M = He,34 −〈ΔE〉/hc ≈ 20 (T/300)1±0.5 cm−1 was found over the range 300–1000 K. A look at other reaction systems in ref. 33 confirms that 〈ΔE〉 in the present type of analysis either is practically temperature independent or at most has a small positive temperature coefficient up to about T1 for M = He.
Method	It appears important to emphasize that 〈ΔE〉 is not expected to have a large negative temperature coefficient, see below.
Problem	In this work we analyze experimental data for reactions (1) and (−1) in the bath gases M = He, Ar, N2, CO2 and SF6.
Method	In the discussed way we fit 〈ΔE〉 to the experimental results near 800 K, assuming that krec,0 here is dominated by the ET-mechanism.
Background	In the next section the individual cases are considered in more detail.
Method	The analysis of the data is based on krec,0/[M] = (12, 5.1, 8.0, 36, 61) × 10−35 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 at 800 K, see below, which leads to the values −〈ΔE〉/hc = (18, 18, 25, 150, 280) cm−1 at 300 K for the bath gases M = He, Ar, N2, CO2 and SF6, respectively.
Method	The values of 〈ΔE〉 are assumed to be nearly temperature independent, except for M = He where 〈ΔE〉 ∝ T0.5 follows from the data, see below.
Method	The corresponding temperature-dependent values of the rate coefficients from the ET-mechanism in Table 1 are compared with the strong collision rate coefficients krec,0ET,SC/[M], i.e. the calculated values from eqn. (11) with βc from eqn. (8).
Method	In the following the experimental results are compared with the rate coefficients from the ET-mechanism such as determined in section 2 and fitted to experimental data near 800 K. Because this comparison provides the empirical justification for our conclusions on the RC-mechanism, particular care had to be taken to obtain the best available experimental data base.
Method	We, therefore, have gone back to the individual experimental studies and, in part, re-evaluated the data with improved knowledge1–5 on the rates of reference reactions.
Method	The most complete data base is available for M = Ar where the experiments from refs. 7, 10, 11, 35–48 cover the temperature range 80–3000 K which is probably the largest range which would be accessible experimentally.
Method	(The experiments from ref. 43 in the range 1100–3000 K become increasingly scattered at temperatures above 1500 K and in shock waves using more than 1% O3 in Ar.
Method	We, therefore, discard experimental data above 1500 K and using higher ozone concentrations; these data were included in .ref. 11)
Result	Fig. 1 shows the data.
Result	One notices a large negative temperature coefficient.
Result	One also observes a slight change of the temperature coefficient from low to high temperatures.
Result	The experimental krec,0 markedly differs from the ET-calculations which we denote by kETrec,0, see Table 1.
Result	We attribute this behaviour to the contribution of the RC-mechanism to krec,0 which we determine fromkRCrec,0 = krec,0 − kETrec,0For M = Ar, in this way we obtainkRCrec,0/[Ar] = 1.7 × 10−34 (T/300)−3.2 cm6 molecule−2 s−1whilekETrec,0/[Ar] = 2.3 × 10−34 (T/300)−1.5 cm6 molecule−2 s−1.The interpretation of the experimental rate coefficients krec,0 by the ET-mechanism, in terms of eqns. (8) and (11) alone, would require a markedly negative temperature coefficient of 〈ΔE〉.
Result	In order to reproduce the measured krec,0 one would have to use −〈ΔE〉/hc ≈ 50 (T/300)−1 cm−1.
Conclusion	Such temperature coefficient of 〈ΔE〉 would be far from that found for related reactions being analyzed in the same way.
Conclusion	It is also at variance with the general trends of temperature dependence from directly measured or trajectory calculated 〈ΔE〉 at related conditions in various systems.49
Conclusion	Therefore, the interpretation of the low temperature data by the ET-mechanism alone can practically be ruled out.
Method	The data base for M = N2 is similarly complete as for M = Ar.
Result	Fig. 2 summarizes data from refs. 7, 11, 12, 35, 37, 38, 40, 41, 45, 47, 50–52.
Result	In this case we obtainkRCrec,0/[N2] = 2.5 × 10−34 (T/300)−3.3 cm6 molecule−2 s−1andkETrec,0/[N2] = 3.5 × 10−34 (T/300)−1.5 cm6 molecule−2 s−1.The results look similar as for M = Ar.
Result	However, both kETrec,0 and kRCrec,0 are about a factor of 1.5 larger than for M = Ar.
Result	An interpretation by the ET-mechanism alone would require −〈ΔE〉/hc ≈ 70 (T/300)−1 cm−1.
Conclusion	The value of 70 cm−1 would not be much different from the value of 100 cm−1 (which corresponds to down step sizes near 200 cm−1 at 300 K) which was used in .ref. 17
Conclusion	However, as for M = Ar, the temperature coefficient of 〈ΔE〉 would be very unusual and different from related reactions analyzed in the same way, as well as from the typical trends in direct determinations of 〈ΔE〉 at chemically significant energies.
Result	The picture for M = He looks slightly different.
Result	Fig. 3 summarizes experimental results from refs. 7, 11, 37–39, 41, 47 and 53.
Result	The representation shows a curvature which appears to be outside the experimental error.
Result	In part, this may be attributed to the positive temperature coefficients of 〈ΔE〉 ∝ T+0.5 used in our analysis which would lead tokETrec,0/[He] = 3.4 × 10−34 (T/300)−1.05 cm6 molecule−2 s−1.However, the data base is too limited at the low and high temperature ends to be sure of the curvature.
Result	If eqn. (17) would be adequate, one would havekRCrec,0/[He] = 7 × 10−33 cm6 molecule−2 s−1at 100 K and an only negligible contribution from the RC-mechanism at 300 K. If one would assume 〈ΔE〉 ∝ T0, a smaller value for kRCrec,0 would be derived.
Result	The data base is even less complete for M = CO2 and SF6, see Fig. 4 which compares the data from refs. 7, 36, 37, 39, 42, 54 and 55 for M = CO2 and from refs. 7, 37 and 42 for M = SF6.
Result	Like for M = He, it would be difficult to separate the contributions from the ET- and RC-mechanisms.
Conclusion	However, if the data near 800 K are attributed to the ET-mechanism, one haskETrec,0/[CO2] = 1.4 × 10−33 (T/300)−1.34 cm6 molecule−2 s−1andkETrec,0/[SF6] = 2.1 × 10−33 (T/300)−1.26 cm6 molecule−2 s−1.Through eqn. (12) thenkRCrec,0/[CO2] ≈ 1 × 10−33 cm6 molecule−2 s−1für T = 200 K andkRCrec,0/[SF6] ≈ 1 × 10−33 cm6 molecule−2 s−1for T = 300 K would be estimated; however, these data would be fairly uncertain.
Conclusion	It should be emphasized that the data base for M = He, CO2 and SF6 is too small to arrive at a satisfactory separation of the ET- and RC-contributions.
Method	However, the data for M = Ar and N2 appear sufficient for the separation.
Conclusion	An interpretation of the data by the ET-mechanism alone would only be possible with quite unrealistic temperature dependences of 〈ΔE〉 such as they have not been found before in this type of analysis.
Conclusion	In addition the derived absolute values of 〈ΔE〉 would be much larger than have been obtained from classical trajectory calculations of energy transfer of excited ozone, or directly measured in other systems at related conditions.
Problem	Having empirically determined the contributions kRCrec,0 of the RC-mechanism to the overall rate coefficients krec,0 = kETrec,0 + kRCrec,0 in the previous section, in the following we try to rationalize the obtained data.
Method	The RC-mechanism symbolically is described by the van der Waals-type equilibriaO + M ⇄ OMO2 + M ⇄ O2Mwith the equilibrium constants K23 = ([OM]/[O][M])eq and K24 = ([O2M]/[O2][M])eq and the reactionsOM + O2 → O3 + MO2M + O → O3 + M.In the low-pressure range considered here, reactions of the typeOM + O2M → O3 + 2 Mare neglected.
Method	Assuming that the pre-equilibria (23) and (24) are established, kRCrec,0 follows askRCrec,0/[M] = k25K23 + k26K24.The equilibrium constants K23 and K24 are estimated by a modification of the Bunker-Davidson relationship56 such as given by Schwarzer and Teubner.57
Background	As the latter authors pointed out, Bunker and Davidson omitted metastable states of the complexes with energies larger than the dissociation energy but smaller than the centrifugal barriers.
Background	Including these states increases the equilibrium constants up to a factor of 2 at higher temperatures.
Result	Following this method, the equilibrium constants from Table 2 were obtained on the basis of the following Lennard-Jones parameters: σLJ = 3.2, 3.5, 3.4, 3.7 and 4.3 Å and εLJ/k = 27, 93, 107, 121 and 126 K for O–He, –Ar, –N2, –CO2 and –SF6 complexes, respectively; σLJ = 3.4, 3.6, 3.7 and 4.3 Å and εLJ/k = 29, 130, 126, 142 and 148 K for O2–He, –Ar, –N2, –CO2 and –SF6 complexes, respectively, which were taken from .refs. 58–60
Result	Assuming k25 ≈ k26, the experiments for M = Ar and N2 through eqns. (13), (15) and (28) lead tok25 ≈ k26 ≈ 1.2 × 1 0−12 (T/300)−1.4 cm3 molecule−1 s−1for M = Ar andk25 ≈ k26 ≈ 1.1 × 10−12 (T/300)−1.7 cm3 molecule−1 s−1for M = N2.
Conclusion	Following the analysis given, these two values appear now to be established with reasonable certainty.
Conclusion	This is much less the case for the results with M = He, CO2 and SF6, see eqns. (18), (21) and (22).
Result	Employing the tentative values for the latter bath gases we would obtain k25 ≈ k26 ≈ 8 × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 at 100 K for M = He, 3.8 × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 at 300 K for M = CO2 and 2.2 × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 at 300 K for M = SF6.
Conclusion	While the latter data, within the uncertainties of our approach appear not unrealistic, clearly the He data are problematic.
Conclusion	It appears too difficult to establish kRCrec,0 from few low temperature points only, see Fig. 3, and on the basis of an uncertain temperature dependence of 〈ΔE〉.
Conclusion	We, therefore, cannot provide a meaningful separation of the He results into ET- and RC-contributions.
Problem	In the following we discuss whether the results from eqns. (29) and (30) for M = Ar and N2 can be understood in terms of related quantities.
Method	We consider reaction (25) with M = Ar as an example.
Method	On the one hand this process may be part of a set of competing processes likeOAr + O2 → O3 + ArOAr + O2 → O + O2ArOAr + O2 → O + O2 + Ar.On the other hand, it is related to oxygen isotope exchange processesOa + ObOc → OaOb + Ocfor whichk32 ≈ (2–3) × 10−12 (T/300)−1 cm3 molecule−1 s−1was determined experimentally and analyzed theoretically in refs. 25, 61 and 62.
Result	At this stage we note the similarity of the values from eqns. (29), (30) and (35).
Conclusion	The slightly different temperature coefficients may attributed to the fact that reaction (33) will become more important than reaction (31) with increasing temperatures and that reaction (34) is closer to reaction (32) than to reaction (31).
Conclusion	It also appears not improbable that reaction (31) at room temperature is slower than reaction (34).
Conclusion	In any case, the similarity of eqns. (29) and (30) with eqn. (35) in our view presents strong evidence for the validity of the present interpretation.
Problem	We have reconsidered the experimental data base for ozone recombination and dissociation in the low-pressure limiting range.
Conclusion	Assuming that the energy transfer mechanism dominates the reaction at temperatures near 800 K and that the corresponding rate coefficients can safely be extrapolated to lower temperatures, we interpret the differences between measured rate coefficients at lower temperatures and the extrapolations from the ET-mechanism as being due to a contribution from the radical complex mechanism.
Conclusion	The derived rate coefficients from the RC-mechanism can well be interpreted in terms of equilibrium constants of O- and O2-van der Waals complexes and rate coefficients for oxygen abstraction from these complexes.
Conclusion	The latter values are very close to rate coefficients for oxygen isotope exchange.
Conclusion	This observation strongly supports the present interpretation.
Conclusion	A final proof will come from a detailed theoretical modelling of processes of the type of OAr + O2 → O3 + Ar.
Conclusion	Such modelling is underway27 and the preliminary results apparently confirm the present empirically determined values from eqns. (29) and (30).
Conclusion	The present conclusions have also consequences for the interpretation of the isotope effects in ozone recombination which together with the recombination rate is of great importance for atmospheric chemistry.
Result	While the ET- and RC-contributions (kETrec,0 and kRCrec,0, respectively) to the low-pressure rate coefficients krec,0 are of similar magnitude at 300 K with decreasing temperature kRCrec,0 starts to dominate over kETrec,0.
Result	Explanations for the experimentally observed isotope effects, therefore, have to be searched both in the ET- and in the RC-mechanism.
Background	The latter to our knowledge has not yet been done.
Conclusion	For this reason, we think that the explanation of the isotope effects in ozone recombination still remains an open problem.
Method	σLJ/Å = 3.98 (O3), 2.551 (He), 3.542 (Ar), 3.798 (N2), 3.941 (CO2), 5.128 (SF6); (εLJ/k)/K = 161.2 (O3), 10.22 (He), 93.3 (Ar), 71.4 (N2), 195.2 (CO2), 222.1 (SF6).
Method	Fitted average energies transferred per collision 〈ΔE〉, see section 2.
Method	ΔH0o = E0(J = 0) = hc 8475.5 cm−14–6.
Method	O3: 3.553 81, 0.445 30, 0.394 77 cm−1; O2: 1.437 66 cm−16.
Method	O3: g = 1; O2: g = 3; O: 0 (g = 5), 158.265 (g = 3), 226.977 (g = 1) cm−16.
Method	O3: 1103, 701, 1042 cm−1;63 O2: 1556 cm−16.
Method	Spectroscopic constants for O3: ω1 = 1134.3, ω2 = 713.5, ω3 = 1097.4, x11 = −6.89, x22 = −1.28, x33 = −10.94, x12 = −8.25, x13 = −36.83, x23 = −17.62;64 anharmonic numbers of vibrational states W(E) are determined with the spectroscopic constants (Wa(E)) or with the empirical anharmonicity model from ref. 65 (Wb(E)), the harmonized frequencies 1201.99, 724.28, 1058.98 cm−1 and local bond energies 9114.4, 42044 cm−1 reproduce the fundamental frequencies, see .ref. 65)
Method	They are compared with the accurate values (Wc(E)) from an ab initio potential.22
Method	Table 3 shows the results (E = energy above the vibrational ground state of O3).
Method	Because of the sparsity of levels, densities of states ρvib(E) = dW(E)/dE have to be smoothed.
Method	The Whitten–Rabinovitch expression63 gives ρvib,h(E0) = 0.061/cm−1 employing fundamental frequencies and the Whitten-Rabinovitch parameter a(E0) = 0.984.
Method	One obtains dWa(E)/dE ≈ 0.065/cm−1, dWb(E)/dE ≈ 0.082/cm−1 and dWc(E)/dE ≈ 0.07/cm−1 at E = E0, see .ref. 21
Method	Using the Whitten–Rabinovitch value, such as calculated with the anharmonic fundamental frequencies, for ρvib,h(E0) = 0.061/cm−1, with ρvib(E0) ≈ 0.082/cm−1 one has Fanh ≈ 1.34 which is used here; an overestimate of Fanh of about 15% appears possible, but would be compensated by lowering βc and 〈ΔE〉 correspondingly.
Method	Centrifugal barriers are calculated with a fit to the ab initio potential from ref. 25 (Fig. 1) as represented by V(r) = E0 + D1{exp[−2β1(r − re1)] – 2exp[−β1(r − re1)]} – D2{exp[−2β2(r − re2)] – 2exp[−β2(r − re2)]} with the center-of-mass O–O2 distance r, D1/hc = 409.4 cm−1, D2/hc = 230.4 cm−1, re1 = 2.704 Å, re2 = 2.637 Å, β1 = 1.987 Å−1, β2 = 2.932 Å−1.
Method	Because of the presence of a potential reef 114 cm−1 below the dissociation limit25 at c.o.m. distance r ≈ 2.4 Å, there is centrifugal barrier switching at J ≈ 28.
Method	For J ≤ 28, one obtains E0(J) – E0(J = 0) ≈ hc 9.0 × 10−3 [J(J + 1)]1.21 cm−1; for J > 28, one has E0(J) – E0(J ≈ 0) ≈ hc 1.3 × 10−1 [J(J + 1)]1.36 cm−1.
Method	Frot(T) was calculated with the accurate E0(J) using the method of ref. 9 and leading to Frot(T) = 26.2, 15.4, 11.7, 9.7, 7.4, 6.0, 5.0, 3.5 in comparison to Frot,max(T) (see ref. 9) = 292, 103, 56, 37, 20, 13, 9.2, 5.0 for T/K = 100, 200, 300, 400, 600, 800, 1000, 1500.
Method	Frot(T) can well be approximated by Frot ≈ 11.7 (T/300)−0.71.

Method	Discrimination between neurochemical and macromolecular signals in human frontal lobes using short echo time proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy
Method	Magnetic resonance spectra from large (35 cm3) frontal lobe voxels in vivo were analyzed using LCModel, with and without subtraction of a “metabolite nulled” spectrum with an inversion time of 650 ms to characterize the macromolecule baseline.
Result	Baseline subtraction decreased the signal to noise ratio (SNR), but improved the reliability of LCModel quantification of most metabolites, as reflected in the Cramer–Rao lower bounds, in particular for glutamate and glutamine.
Result	The reported concentrations increased for glutamine, creatine, and lactate, and decreased for glutamate, myo-inositol and NAAG, but the sum of all metabolites remained constant, as did the standard deviation of the concentrations in the control group.
Conclusion	Macromolecule subtraction is worthwhile when SNR is high, as in the characterization of normal-appearing tissue in the brain.
Method	Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy can estimate the in vivo concentration of several important chemicals in the brain.
Background	Most studies to date have been performed at long echo times, at which signal generally remains from only three main metabolites: N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), which is thought to be a marker of neuronal numbers and function; the sum of creatine and phospho-creatine (Cr), which are central to energy homeostasis; and choline-containing compounds (Cho), which probably are largely related to membrane function.
Background	N-acetyl aspartyl glutamate (NAAG) – a putative neurotransmitter – may be detected, in white matter in particular, although it is difficult to resolve from NAA.
Background	If present at sufficient concentration in the brain (usually only in pathological states), then lactate (Lac) is also visible at long echo times.
Background	At short echo times, signal is detectable from several additional metabolites of interest: myo-inositol (Ins), a possible marker of glial cell number and function; glutamate (Glu), a key amino acid neurotransmitter; and glutamine (Gln), a closely related amino acid also linked to neurotransmitter metabolism.
Background	Elevations in the combined signal of glutamate and glutamine (Glx) have been shown in some patients with epilepsy,1–3 and may be an indication of increased cortical excitability.
Background	This is potentially of interest not only in understanding the pathophysiology of epilepsy but also in suggesting suitable drug therapies and in monitoring patient progress.
Background	However, the signals of glutamate and glutamine overlap to a large extent both with each other and with macromolecules such as proteins, making their reliable estimation very difficult.
Background	At 1.5 T, complete spectral resolution of glutamate and glutamine signals is impossible, so spectral modelling is needed.
Method	LCModel is a commercially available fitting package, which estimates the concentration of chemicals in the brain with reference to their individual spectra acquired using highly concentrated solutions.4
Method	This provides estimates of the separate concentrations in vivo of Glu and Gln, and of their combined signal Glx, along with estimates of the uncertainty in these concentrations, based on Cramer–Rao lower bounds.
Method	The reliability of measurement of Glx is typically better than that of its individual components, and glutamine in particular would be considered generally to be unreliably determined in vivo.
Background	The macromolecular baseline signal, which has broad peaks appearing at roughly 0.9, 1.3, 2.4, and 3.2 ppm,5 is a major limitation of the in vivo application of short echo time proton spectroscopy.
Background	These resonances can comprise 30% of the total signal, and spectral modelling is generally unable to find a unique solution to discriminating between these broad signals and the superimposed sharper peaks from small metabolites.6
Method	One method to discriminate signals from macromolecules and neurochemicals is through their different spin-lattice (T1) relaxation times.
Background	Macromolecules are relatively immobile, and therefore their protons have much shorter T1 (approximately 200 ms at 1.5 T 7) than those of small metabolites (between 1 and 1.5 s at 1.5 T 8).
Method	Therefore, spectroscopic acquisition can be preceded by an inversion pulse with a delay chosen to null the signal from one while maintaining signal from the other.
Method	It is possible to suppress the lipids and macromolecules directly, using an inversion pulse with a short delay.9,10
Method	However, this also reduces signal from small metabolites, and may reduce them differently depending on their differing T1.
Problem	It may be possible to optimize lipid suppression somewhat, for example by using a train of inversion pulses,11 but there is always an accompanying reduction in signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the small metabolites.
Method	Another problem is that it can be difficult to integrate lipid/macromolecule suppression with water suppression: to attain shorter inversion times, it may be necessary to reduce the number or pulse width of water suppression pulses, leading to less thorough suppression or to poorer frequency specificity, respectively.
Method	A better approach is to null the signal from small metabolites while maintaining signal from macromolecules.
Method	The fraction of signal remaining (S/S0) at each inversion time (TI) is calculated from the estimated T1 of each species and the repetition time (TR) as: S/S0 = 1 – 2 exp(–TI/T1) + exp(–TR/T1)The resulting macromolecule-weighted spectrum can be subtracted from the original trace to leave a spectrum with only signal from small neurochemicals remaining.
Method	Although this method of metabolite nulling has been demonstrated to be capable of separating out the macromolecule signal,5,12,13 it is not widely used in vivo, due to the doubled scan time, and the reduction in signal-to-noise ratio inherent in performing a subtraction.
Method	However, when estimating cerebral concentrations of especially glutamate and glutamine, signal-to-noise is not as limiting as macromolecule signal overlap, so the benefits of this approach may outweigh the drawbacks.
Problem	We investigated whether metabolite-nulling improved the reliability of metabolite concentration estimation using the LCModel program, as measured by both the reported uncertainty of estimation and by the spread of concentration estimates in a control group.
Method	The study was performed on a 1.5 T General Electric Signa Horizon Echospeed scanner (Milwaukee WI, USA) using the standard birdcage head coil.
Method	Axial T1-weighted inversion–recovery prepared fast spoiled gradient echo images were obtained, both to guide voxel prescription and subsequently for segmentation using SPM99 (Statistical Parametric Mapping; Wellcome Dept.
Method	Of Imaging Neuroscience, Institute of Neurology, London) to determine the fractional content of grey matter, white matter and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the spectroscopic voxels.
Method	The concentrations of all metabolites were divided by the estimated fractional brain tissue content of the voxels, to correct for the presence of CSF, as previously described.14
Method	Voxels approximately 4.0 × 3.5 × 2.5 cm in size (Fig. 1) were studied in both frontal lobes of 10 normal volunteers.
Background	This study was approved by the Joint Research Ethics Committee of the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery and the Institute of Neurology and all subjects gave informed consent.
Method	Point-resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) localization was used to select the spectroscopy volume, with an echo time of 30 ms and a repetition time of 3 s.
Method	Water signal was suppressed using 3 chemical-shift selective (CHESS) pulses in both cases, with the flip angle of the final pulse tailored to ensure slight under-suppression.
Method	32 transients each were collected, with and without the inversion, plus 16 transients without CHESS, for a total scan time of approximately 5 min per lobe.
Method	The optimum inversion pulse delay was calculated from eqn. (1) to be about 750 ms, assuming a range of in vivoT1 between 1.0 and 1.5 s and a TR of 3 s.
Background	This was checked in a pilot in vivo study.
Method	A 40 cm3 volume of interest was placed along the midline in one subject, at a level similar to Fig. 1, including equal amounts of tissue from the right and left frontal lobes in case there was a difference in the relaxation times between them.
Method	Spectra with inversion times of 550, 650, 750, 850, and 950 ms were acquired and compared to a spectrum with no inversion.
Method	The inversion time giving the minimum residual metabolite signal was used for all subsequent acquisitions.
Method	Spectra were analyzed using LCModel, with and without subtraction of the metabolite-nulled spectrum.
Method	The same reference set of spectra from metabolite solutions was used for both analyses, as well as the same calibration factor.
Method	Comparisons were made between left and right frontal lobes, and between raw and subtracted data, using paired t-tests in SPSS 9.0.
Method	The average of the standard deviations (SD) reported by LCModel (a reflection of the Cramer–Rao bounds) on the left and right were also compared between raw and subtracted data.
Method	An inversion pulse delay of 650 ms was chosen to null the signal from small metabolites, based on the pilot series of acquisitions (Fig. 2).
Result	Of the inversion times shown, 750 ms was too long, since positive peaks were clearly visible from NAA, Cr and Cho, whereas 550 ms was too short, since negative peaks appeared for NAA and Cr.
Result	A good compromise appeared to be 650 ms, which showed a fairly smooth baseline of broad components.
Result	Some residual positive peak of NAA appeared to remain, but this was not seen in all subjects.
Result	This optimum inversion time was somewhat shorter than predicted by theory; eqn. (1) would suggest 750 ms to be better for the range of in vivoT1 expected.
Conclusion	This discrepancy may perhaps be due to inversion pulse imperfections; or the metabolites of interest may have somewhat shorter T1 relaxation times than previously reported.
Conclusion	In particular, the protons of small metabolites not forming the large singlet peaks may have T1 shorter than 1 s.7
Result	The metabolite-nulled spectra consisted of broad signals similar to those previously observed and assigned to macromolecules in vivo,5,7 and the average metabolite-nulled spectra from 10 control subjects was found to differ significantly on the left and right (Fig. 3).
Result	Narrow peaks from the small metabolites were effectively nulled on both sides: the main difference between left and right appeared to be an increase in the broad signal around 1.5 ppm on the subject's left compared to the right.
Result	In all cases a smoother baseline was fitted when macromolecules were subtracted (Fig. 4).
Result	In Fig. 4A, a typical constrained C-spline fit to the baseline is shown.
Result	This is similar to the observed macromolecule signal, but clearly had uncertainty associated with it.
Result	In the subtracted spectrum, the baseline only included residual water, which can be modelled relatively easily, giving a more consistent result.4
Method	The SNR was reduced by the subtraction by the expected factor of √2, from a mean of 36 to 26, but remained sufficient for quantification.
Result	The reported standard deviations given by LCModel, a reflection of the Cramer–Rao lower bounds, were reduced significantly by baseline subtraction for almost all metabolites, suggesting that quantification had been improved (Table 1).
Result	The improvement was most marked for glutamate and glutamine: for Gln, the SD reported by LCModel changed from 31%, which would be considered unreliable, to a more acceptable 19%.
Result	For Glx the SD was nearly halved, going from 12% to just over 6%.
Result	The spread of measurements in the control group, however, was not much affected by the subtraction of metabolite-nulled data.
Result	Some concentrations were increased (Gln, Cr, Lac) and some were reduced (NAAG, Glu, Ins), but the standard deviations of the measurements for each metabolite across the subject group remained fairly stable, as well as the summed concentration of all metabolites measured.
Conclusion	This suggests that although LCModel's C-spline estimate of baseline is not perfect, it tends to behave consistently in the presence of macromolecule.
Result	The only systematic difference between the left and right was in Glx, and this disappeared when the metabolite-nulled baseline was subtracted.
Result	Glx showed a reduction in the SD of the control group as well as in the LCModel SD estimate, confirming that the quantification reliability was improved.
Result	Lactate results in controls were still unreliable as estimated by LCModel; however, use of metabolite nulling did increase conspicuousness of Lac (Fig.3) and may therefore allow better determination where it is pathologically elevated.
Problem	“Metabolite-nulled” spectra were acquired and analyzed, to investigate the macromolecular signal in magnetic resonance spectra at short echo times and its effect upon quantification of the small molecular weight metabolites of interest.
Method	Metabolite spectra were analyzed using LCModel with and without the subtraction of the macromolecule baseline, and the concentrations and reliability estimates were compared.
Background	Similar approaches attempting to improve LCModel fitting of metabolites have been adopted recently by other groups.15–17
Background	These merit particular discussion, so the methods they employed will first be described.
Method	All have attempted to incorporate macromolecule signals into the LCModel basis set, which has the major advantage that the lengthy acquisition of baseline data may not be necessary in every subject studied.
Method	The first approach was the incorporation into the basis set merely of simulated lipid peaks at 0.9 and 1.3 ppm.15
Method	This was shown to aid the discrimination of lipid from baseline, and to improve estimates of lactate and alanine in vivo.
Method	This may be a particularly advantageous approach in tumours, because lipid, lactate and alanine are often elevated, and these elevations can be significant for differential diagnosis.
Background	In addition, tumour lipid peaks are more mobile than those in normal brain and scalp, giving them a longer T1, so they are not as easily distinguished from small metabolites using T1-based techniques.
Method	However, this technique does not much aid the measurement of glutamate, glutamine, and the other small metabolites overlapped by the other macromolecule regions, either in controls or in conditions such as multiple sclerosis where there may be pathological increases in macromolecule signal throughout the spectrum.18,19
Background	No metabolite results in normal controls were shown using this method,15 so no direct comparison with the current study is possible.
Method	The second approach was to include the average experimentally determined macromolecule baseline as a single element in the LCModel basis set.16
Method	This has the advantage that the broad macromolecule signals which overlap with small metabolites are somewhat constrained by those that do not, but the disadvantage that the small (but not completely negligible) inter-subject variation in macromolecule signal cannot be accommodated.
Method	LCModel requires the relative peaks of a metabolite (or in this case pseudo-metabolite) to be fixed absolutely, allowing no method to compensate for this variation.
Method	However, Hofmann et al. achieved quite good reproducibility of macromolecule signal among their control subjects by using the more time-consuming but more thorough saturation recovery method to characterize them,16 which should have minimized this drawback.
Background	Another methodological difference with the current study is that the echo time was 20 ms instead of 30 ms.
Method	This gave higher, and presumably more accurate, metabolite concentration estimates in vivo, since the spin–spin (T2) relaxation times in vivo are shorter than in the phantom solutions of the basis set, giving more T2 weighting in the current study.
Background	However, different radiofrequency pulses and gradients are needed for such short echo times, which gives less sharp voxel profiles and greater chemical shift displacement error.
Method	This may have increased contamination with lipid and macromolecule signal from outside the voxel, or indeed outside the brain.
Method	The third approach was to include a series of independently varying parameterized peaks in LCModel to account for the macromolecules and lipids.17
Method	This is better able to accommodate inhomogeneous pathological variation in these signals.19,20
Method	However, when they are allowed to vary independently, there is no way to completely constrain the macromolecule resonances which underlie the small metabolite signals at about 2 and 3 ppm.
Background	The acquisition methods for that study also differed from the current study: the pulse sequence used for localization was stimulated echo (STEAM) instead of PRESS, the echo time was 15 ms, and the TR was 1.5 s.
Background	This gave lower concentration estimates than in the current study, probably because of T1 weighting of the spectra.
Method	The shorter echo time also may have led to increased macromolecule signal due to decreased T2 weighting.
Background	Short echo times are more easily combined with sharp voxel definition in STEAM than PRESS, so less of the macromolecule signal should have arisen from outside the voxel; and in addition, stronger outer-volume suppression pulses were used.21
Background	However, a trade-off remains between strong suppression of the outer volume and oversuppression of the inner volume, which depends on the size and position of the voxel and of the suppression bands.
Method	Mader et al22. calculated a suppression factor within the voxel ranging from 3% for a white matter voxel to 19% for the pons when the extra-strong outer-volume suppression was used.
Result	Macromolecule subtraction has been shown to improve somewhat the reliability of quantification of small metabolites in large frontal lobe voxels in vivo, in particular glutamate and glutamine.
Conclusion	The reduction in the estimated uncertainty for most metabolites, despite reduced SNR, confirms that the baseline is a major source of error in the fitting of in vivo signal.
Conclusion	However, the absence of large changes in the estimated concentrations of most metabolites, even glutamate + glutamine, confirms that the C-spline baseline used by LCModel performs surprisingly well.
Result	With the method employed here, the summed metabolite signal stayed constant: the sum of metabolites on the left and right in Table 1 is 47.9 mM for the raw spectra, and 47.7 mM following baseline subtraction.
Background	Hofmann et al16. found a global reduction in the estimated concentrations of nearly all the major small metabolites by about 10% on average when macromolecule signal was included in the basis set.
Background	Of the metabolites in Table 1, only Cho in the white matter was not reduced significantly in that study by the incorporation of macromolecule into the basis set.
Background	Seeger et al17. had a less significant reduction in metabolites when macromolecule was incorporated, about 5% on average, with only NAA + NAAG and Cho reaching significance (and with Cr, as in the current study, being significantly elevated).
Conclusion	It seems that when LCModel is provided with very broad signals in the basis set, there may be a tendency to overfit them to the data.
Conclusion	This is a major potential drawback for methods incorporating macromolecule signal into LCModel.
Result	Hofmann et al.,16 Seeger et al.,17 and the current study all showed a significant reduction in NAA + NAAG when methods were incorporated to account for macromolecule.
Result	This may seem surprising, since quantification of NAA and NAAG is based mainly on the most prominent peak in the spectrum, which should be relatively unaffected by the baseline.
Background	Looking at the NAA and NAAG separately, Hofmann et al16. concur that the dominant effect is on NAAG, which was reduced by 21% in white matter and 45% in grey matter.
Background	This suggests that in the raw in vivo spectra LCModel fitted some macromolecule signal as NAAG.
Background	The other metabolites with prominent peaks were also affected by macromolecule correction methods, although to a lesser extent.
Result	Myo-inositol showed a trend of reduction by about 5% in all 3 studies.
Result	Cho was reduced by about 5% in the current study (non-significantly) and by a similar amount in Seeger et al.In Hofmann et al., it was unchanged in white matter and increased by about 15% percent in grey matter.
Result	Cr was increased by about 5% by macromolecule correction in the current study and in Seeger et al., and decreased by about 5% in white matter in Hofmann et al. Probably these small differences indicate that the C-spline baseline fitted by LCModel does not precisely match the macromolecule signal, although the approximation is close.
Conclusion	Therefore, macromolecule corrections may improve the accuracy of measuring these “conventional” metabolites at short echo times also.
Conclusion	The increased conspicuousness of Lac following subtraction of the macromolecule baseline may allow better determination where it is pathologically elevated.
Conclusion	One caveat is that if Lac had an especially long T1 it would be overestimated due to subtraction of negative signal at an inversion time of 650 ms.
Conclusion	Hofmann et al16. and Seeger et al17. found that incorporating macromolecule signal into LCModel reduced the estimated Lac instead of increasing it as in the current study: it is unclear which method may be more accurate.
Method	However, even if it were less accurate, metabolite-nulling may be preferred as being more precise: it was found to be invaluable in distinguishing between pathologically elevated lipids and abnormally high lactate in multiple sclerosis lesions.19
Result	Although we found no significant effect of macromolecule subtraction on the estimated Glx (glutamate plus glutamine), there was redistribution between these overlapping peaks, with a reduction in the estimated glutamate and an increase in glutamine.
Conclusion	The elimination of broad resonances underlying the peaks would be expected to have aided in this discrimination; but the lack of a definitive gold standard makes it impossible to judge which is more accurate.
Background	Hofmann et al16. showed large reductions in both glutamate and glutamine, again suggesting possible overfitting of macromolecule.
Background	Seeger et al17. didn't report glutamate and glutamine separately, but found no significant change in Glx.
Background	It is unclear why Glx was not affected by the incorporation of a broad unconstrained macromolecule peak at the same frequency in the basis set.
Background	From the same group, Mader et al22. found that Glx interfered with macromolecule estimation at 2.1 ppm, so it seems likely that macromolecule would interfere with Glx estimation.
Conclusion	This inability to discriminate between macromolecule and Glx argues that the acquisition of metabolite-nulled data may be necessary to reliably determine Glx.
Background	In the past we have demonstrated elevations in Glx in temporal lobe epilepsy1 and idiopathic generalized epilepsy.3
Background	In future, we will apply these methods of metabolite-nulling both to ensure that this elevation is not due to artifactual macromolecule signal, and also to attempt to estimate the individual concentrations of glutamate and glutamine.
Background	Previous studies have shown elevations in glutamine alone in epilepsy patients taking vigabatrin23 or valproate13.
Result	We showed a marked left–right difference in the macromolecule signal recorded, with greater signal around 1.5 ppm on the subject's left.
Background	A very similar difference has been shown between spectra from predominantly grey and predominantly white matter in vivo, with the greater signal around 1.5 ppm in grey matter voxels being ascribed to the tissue content difference.16
Result	In the current study, the estimated percentage content of grey matter was similar on the two sides (30 ± 3% on the left; 29 ± 5% on the right), so tissue content can be excluded as the source of this.
Conclusion	The difference was more likely to be due to differences in the amount and phase of macromolecule signal contamination from outside the gradient-selected region of interest.21,24
Conclusion	This can cause a consistent directional difference because the gradient used to select the volume of interest always varied from negative on the left to positive on the right.
Conclusion	A similar effect may possibly have been acting in the Hofmann study:16 more signal at 1.5 ppm was seen in the grey matter voxel, which was positioned in the occipital lobe at the posterior of the brain, than in the white matter voxel, which was located anteriorly in the centrum semiovale.
Background	On GE 5X Signa scanners, posterior is conventionally the negative gradient direction, although whether this was so in Hofmann et al. is not known.
Method	In both the current study and in Hofmann's work, standard outer-volume suppression pulses available on a GE 5X Signa scanner were used.
Result	With the use of stronger outer volume saturation,22 more macromolecule signal at 1.5 ppm was also found in grey matter than in white.
Conclusion	However, caution is needed in interpreting subtle changes in macromolecule as true physiological differences, because in the neocortex, grey matter voxels are by definition almost always further towards the periphery of the brain: closer to the scalp and further from the magnet isocentre.
Background	A better method to investigate grey/white matter differences in macromolecule content may be magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging.25
Result	Contamination with extra-cerebral signal remains a problem, but the spatial encoding helps identify the origin and extent of the contaminating signal; and the acquisition of data from multiple voxels containing variable tissue content may enable the more effective modelling of macromolecule content in grey and white matter.
Background	Hwang et al25. collected macromolecule-weighted MRSI, and although they did not investigate the tissue content dependence of macromolecule signal per se, they commented upon finding a uniform distribution of macromolecule signal intensity within the excited region of interest, implying that no such tissue content dependence existed.
Background	In one of our own MRSI studies at an echo time of 30 ms,14 we showed spectra obtained from voxels containing mostly grey matter and mostly white matter.
Background	Neither showed appreciable macromolecule signal at 1.5 ppm, although signal at this frequency was excited in the scalp well outside the PRESS-selected region of interest.
Background	When lesions are investigated, they are likely to be distributed heterogeneously in different patients, so the macromolecule signal is likely to suffer even more from variable inclusion of extra-voxel contamination in patients than in controls.
Background	In an elegant demonstration that lipids detected in a multiple sclerosis lesion were not caused by scalp contamination, Davie et al18. studied a control voxel located in normal-appearing tissue between the lesion voxel and the scalp, and verified that the lipid/macromolecule signal was not elevated at that location compared to controls.
Background	This sort of validation is vital to enable sound interpretation of macromolecular signal in vivo; we have chosen instead to regard macromolecular signal as largely artifactual, and to attempt to minimize its effect on metabolite analysis.
Background	In summary, there are several methods available to investigate the distinct contributions of macromolecules and small metabolites to in vivo proton spectra.
Conclusion	Which of these is the best solution to the problem depends on which metabolites are of most interest, and on the specific pathology.
Method	Methods have been proposed for modelling macromolecule signal without the separate acquisition of metabolite-nulled data; but none has yet demonstrated convincing improvement in the quantification of glutamate and glutamine, which are metabolites of central interest in seizure disorders.
Method	Acquisition of a separate metabolite-nulled dataset is time-consuming, but not prohibitively so if fairly large volumes of interest are used, as in characterizing normal tissues.
Method	It is likely to be less useful in studying small focal lesions than in studying larger lesions or more widespread abnormalities.

Problem	Does metallophilicity increase or decrease down group 11? Computational investigations of [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au, [111])
Problem	The electronic and geometric structures of Cl–M–PH3 and [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au, [111]) have been studied computationally using post Hartree–Fock ab initio and density functional methods.
Problem	The trends in r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) in the monomers are discussed in the light of previous studies.
Result	Previous MP2 data on the metallophilic interactions in [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au) are reproduced (to within basis set differences), and new MP2 data for the transactinide element 111 are presented.
Result	QCISD and coupled cluster calculations on the title systems are reported for the first time, and reveal that, contrary to the MP2 results, the strength of the metallophilic interaction essentially decreases as group 11 is descended.
Background	“Metallophilic” interactions-the attractions between formally closed shell metal ions in compounds, archetypally a pair of Au(i) cations-are well established.1–14
Method	Theoretical work in this area was pioneered by Pyykkö, who used Hartree–Fock (HF) and perturbation theory (MP2) methods to study the aurophilicity (metallophilicity between gold atoms) in [X–Au–PH3]2 dimers, where X is one from a range of groups such as the halogens, methyl and SCH3.4,5
Method	The structure studied in most detail was the C2 symmetric arrangement shown in Fig. 1a, in which the P1–Au1–Au2–P2 dihedral angle is fixed at 90° in order to zero the leading dipole–dipole term between the two monomers, and hence to allow more unencumbered focus on the aurophilicity.
Background	Pyykkö's calculations were extremely revealing.
Background	At the HF level the monomer interaction energy curves are repulsive; an aurophilic attraction only manifests itself when electron correlation is introduced at the MP2 level.
Background	It was therefore concluded that aurophilicity is due to electron correlation (or, put another way, van der Waals or dispersion forces), and also that the attraction is strengthened by relativistic effects.
Background	The latter issue was revisited by Pyykkö in 1997,6 when it was concluded that relativistic effects are important but not dominant.
Background	For example, a 27% increase in the interaction energy of two Cl–Au–PH3 monomers was found on going from a non-relativistic to a relativistic Au pseudopotential using monomer geometries optimised at the relativistic level.
Background	If non-relativistic monomer geometries are used, the use of a relativistic pseudopotential in the interaction energy calculation produces only a 15% relativistic energy enhancement.
Method	Further insight has more recently been gained from the work of Schütz, Werner et al.,7,10 which focuses on the use of the local MP2 (LMP2) approach.
Background	The target systems were once again dimers of the form [X–M–PH3]2, where X = H, Cl and M = Cu, Ag and Au.
Background	The LMP2 method has three advantages over more traditional MP2 implementations.
Method	First, there is a substantial reduction in the computational cost, second, basis set superposition error (BSSE; a potentially very significant problem in theoretical studies of metallophilicity) is much reduced and, finally, LMP2 offers the possibility to decompose local correlation energies into different excitation classes.15
Background	Magnko et al. confirmed what Pyykkö et al. had discovered previously, that the strength of the metallophilic interaction in [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au) increases as the metal becomes heavier, by approximately 50% from Cu (ca. 22 kJ mol–1) to Au.
Background	The LMP2 analysis revealed that the interaction between the monomers has several components, and that the relative magnitude of these changes quite significantly as group 11 is descended.
Background	Electron correlation is not purely attractive; intramolecular correlation contributions (double excitations localized on one monomer) are repulsive, ca. 30–50% of the total LMP2 interaction energy.
Background	Furthermore, the attractive intermolecular correlation contributions arise from both van der Waals and ionic excitations, with the latter being 60–100% of the former at reqm.
Background	Perhaps most interestingly, the attractive part of the correlation does not arise solely from M(d10)–M(d10) interactions.
Background	Pure Au(5d)–Au(5d) pair correlation amounts to no more than 35% of the total LMP2 attraction in [Cl–Au–PH3]2, and this decreases to only 13% in the analogous Cu compound.
Background	Pair correlations involving only one or neither M(d10) centre make up the bulk of the attractive part of the correlation; for Cu, pair correlations involving neither Cu(3d10) centre are the leading term.
Method	Schwerdtfeger and co-workers have recently examined metallophilicity using traditional MP.29,12
Background	In 2001, they focused on cuprophilicity in [Me–Cu–X]2, where X is a range of σ and π (donor or acceptor) ligands.
Background	They concluded that cuprophilicity is very sensitive to the choice of basis set, and that relativistic effects are important, even for Cu, for the accurate calculation of geometries and interaction energies.
Background	As before, the Cu–Cu interaction curves were found to be repulsive at the HF level but attractive at MP2, the attraction being sensitive to the nature of X (σ donor/π acceptor ligands favour cuprophilicity).
Background	In general, cuprophilic interactions were found to be weak; attractive by only up to 12 kJ mol–1.
Background	It is clear that metallophilicity in group 11 has been extensively investigated over the past decade, and important progress has been made.
Background	To the best of our knowledge, however, previous work has focused almost exclusively on the MP2 approach.
Method	Pyykkö et al. used MP2, MP3 and MP4(SDQ) to study [H–Au–PH3]2 and [Cl–Au–PH3]2, extending their [H–Au–PH3]2 calculations to the CCSD and CCSD(T) levels.6
Method	They found that the values of the interaction energy oscillated quite strongly as the higher level methods were introduced, and noted “this area will require further investigation”.
Method	Magnko et al. acknowledge a potential problem with the MP2 approach, i.e. that it overestimates van der Waals attractions, and state “our MP2 results for the interaction energies….may well be too large by anything between 0 and 25%”.
Background	We therefore felt that there was scope to explore metallophilicity in these group 11 dimers using methods beyond MP2.
Problem	To that end we report in this contribution the results of our studies into [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au, [111]), using HF, MP2, QCISD and coupled cluster approaches.
Method	We have also conducted density functional theory calculations.
Problem	While we acknowledge that, as Magnko et al. note, “van der Waals like attraction cannot be reliably described with current DFT schemes”, we were interested to see how DFT techniques fare in the metallophilicity arena.
Method	DFT has a reputation for producing the correct answer for unreliable reasons.
Problem	As a final extension of previous work, we were keen to probe the metallophilicity in [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 ([111] = element 111), i.e. to study all four members of group 11.
Background	It is now well established that there are four rows of the d-block, and we are currently embarking on an investigation of the chemistry of the transactinide (6d) elements.
Background	The first results of this investigation are reported here.
Method	All calculations were performed using the Gaussian 9816 and MOLPRO 2002317. program suites.
Method	The approach typically taken was to initially optimise the geometry of the [Cl–M–PH3] monomer using Gaussian 98 (gradients are not available in MOLPRO for pseudopotential basis sets).
Method	For the higher level ab initio methods, we then encountered problems when performing calculations on the dimeric systems using Gaussian 98, as we frequently came up against the 16 GB limit on the scratch files (under 32-bit linux for Intel).
Method	For the calculations of the metallophilic interaction (method described more fully in the main text) we therefore used the MOLPRO code.
Result	This package seems to generate smaller scratch files for a given calculation, and we have also found that it is appreciably faster than Gaussian 98 for closed shell QCISD and couple cluster calculations (by up to a factor of 10).
Method	In all post-Hartree–Fock calculations, the lowest 16 (monomer) and 32 (dimer) molecular orbitals were not included in the correlation window.
Method	Basis set superposition errors have been accounted for using the counterpoise correction.
Background	The choice of basis sets is important in all quantum chemistry, but particularly so when studying metallophilicity (a combination of the inherent weakness of the effect and the potential for BSSEs).
Background	Pyykkö et al. found that, when studying [X–M–PH3]2 (X = H, Cl; M = Cu, Ag and Au) at the MP2 level, 19 valence electron pseudopotentials should be used for the metals.6
Background	They also found that, for Au at least, diffuse s, p and d functions were not required in the valence basis set, but that two f polarisation functions were needed (one compact and one diffuse).
Background	A DZP valence basis plus accompanying pseudopotential was employed for the non-metallic elements.
Background	Not surprisingly, more recent studies have employed bigger basis sets.
Background	The LMP2 work of Schütz, Werner et al. employed correlation consistent basis sets for the non-metallic elements, together with more extended metal basis sets than used by Pyykkö.
Background	The Cu bases used by Schwerdtfeger et al. were also reasonably large.
Background	In the present study we were of course conscious of the desirability of using the biggest possible basis sets, but that this must be weighed against the feasibility of performing QCISD and coupled cluster calculations, particularly geometry optimisations.
Background	For the bulk of our work we have therefore used the following combination of basis sets, designated basis α.
Method	The 6-31G** basis sets have been used for Cl, P and H. For Cu, Ag and Au we followed Pyykkö’s procedure of supplementing the relativistic Stuttgart 19 valence electron pseudopotentials and accompanying valence basis sets (Cu;18 Ag and Au19) with two f polarisation functions.
Method	The more diffuse f function was obtained by maximising the MP2 polarisability of the monocation, while the more compact f function was chosen so as to minimise the total CCSD(T) energy of the neutral atom.
Result	The f exponents obtained in this manner are given in Table 1.
Method	For [111] we used the relativistic pseudopotential and accompanying basis set devised by Seth et al.20
Method	As this basis set already contains f polarisation functions, we did not alter it in any way.
Method	Unless otherwise stated, all calculations have been performed with basis α.
Method	In order to gauge the effect of basis set size on our results, we have conducted some MP2 and CCSD(T) single point calculations using bigger basis sets.
Method	Basis β includes the same metal basis sets as basis α, except that the 2f functions for Cu, Ag and Au given in Table 1 were replaced with the 3f2g functions of .ref. 10
Method	For P and Cl, the basis set was improved to 6-311G*, while that for H was unaltered.
Method	Finally, basis γ is the same as β, but with the P and Cl basis sets improved to 6-311+G*.
Method	For Au and [111] we have also performed some comparative non-relativistic calculations.
Method	For Au, the non-relativistic pseudopotential and valence basis set of Schwerdtfeger et al21. was employed, supplemented by two f functions obtained as described above for the relativistic case (yielding α = 0.22 and 1.17).
Method	For [111], the non-relativistic pseudopotential and basis set (including f polarisation functions) of Seth et al20. was employed.
Method	The geometry of the Cl–M–PH3 monomer was optimised for each of the methods employed, and the structural data are collected in Table 2, together with those from previous studies.
Result	Although no symmetry constraints were applied, the Cl–M–P angle optimised to very close to 180° in all cases.
Result	It may be seen that there is very little variation in the P–H distances and H–P–M angles, maximum differences being 3 pm and 2° across all of the molecules and methods.
Result	By contrast, there is much greater variation in the M–Cl and M–P distances.
Result	For Cu and Ag, the HF values are significantly larger than those obtained from the correlated methods, although this difference diminishes as the metal becomes heavier.
Result	Among our data, MP2 gives the shortest M–Cl and M–P distances for all metals, the bond lengths increasing in the order MP2 < QCISD ≤ CCSD.
Result	For Cu, Ag and Au at the CCSD(T) level, r(P–H) and ∠H–P–M are essentially identical to the CCSD values.
Result	This is also the case for the metal–ligand bond lengths in Cl–Au–PH3, although slightly larger (0.01–0.02 Å) differences are found for the Ag and Cu systems.
Result	We were unable to obtain a fully converged CCSD(T) geometry for Cl–[111]–PH3.
Result	Some of the r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) data are plotted in Fig. 2.
Result	The deviation between the non-relativistic QCISD and MP2 values of r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) and their relativistic counterparts increases very significantly as the metal becomes heavier, with the relativistic bond lengths being much shorter than the non-relativistic. For element 111, the difference between non-relativistic and relativistic r([111]–Cl) is ca. 30 pm, while that for r([111]–P) is as much as 60 pm.
Background	The shortening of bond lengths upon the inclusion of relativistic effects is well established,22,23 though the differential effect of relativity on r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) in the present calculations deserves comment.
Result	There is a striking difference between the trends in relativistic r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) for the heavier metals.
Result	For both r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) there is a significant increase from Cu to Ag (c.
Result	20 pm).
Result	For r(M–Cl), changing from Ag to Au and [111] produces almost no difference.
Result	By contrast, there is a marked contraction in r(M–P) from Ag to [111], by c.
Result	10–15 pm, depending on the computational method.
Background	This difference between the trends in r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) has been noted and studied previously by Bowmaker et al. for M = Ag and Au,24 and these workers put forward two possible explanations.
Background	The first, based on earlier work by Schwerdtfeger et al.,21 centres on the role of the metal’s valence ns atomic orbital.
Background	The direct relativistic contraction of valence s and, to a lesser extent, p atomic orbitals is well documented (although its source is often misunderstood21,25,26).
Background	The relativistic bond length contraction in Cl–M–PH3, the argument goes, will be larger when there is appreciable ns character to the bonding.
Background	Thus for a completely ionic M+X– bond, there will be no ns character and hence no relativistic contraction (indeed, there might be a slight increase in the bond length, on account of the indirect relativistic expansion of the valence d orbitals).
Background	The contraction will progressively increase, for a given metal, from M+X– through M–X to M–X+, as the population of the M ns increases from formally 0 to 2.
Result	As can be seen from the Mulliken charges given in Table 3, the M–Cl bond is certainly more ionic in the Cl–M+ sense than is the M–P (as expected given the relative electronegativity of Cl and P).
Result	Thus the r(M–Cl) contraction should be less than that of r(M–P), as is indeed observed.
Background	The problem with this argument, as indeed was noted by Bowmaker et al., is that the relativistic contraction of atomic orbitals and bond lengths have been shown to be two parallel but largely independent effects.
Background	It is now more than 20 years since evidence was presented to suggest that relativistic bond length contractions are due to reduction of the kinetic repulsion between two atoms; the effect is seen even when non-relativistic atomic orbitals are employed in conjunction with a relativistic Hamiltonian.22,27
Background	In the light of this argument, it is difficult to feel entirely comfortable with the ns explanation, notwithstanding that it accounts for the observed bond length variations.
Background	A second explanation, also put forward by Bowmaker et al., involves changes in M–P backbonding.
Background	Relativistic effects destabilise valence d orbitals, and thus should enhance π back-donation from the M nd orbitals to the PH3 group, strengthening (and presumably shortening) the M–P bond.
Result	As shown in Table 4, the relativistic destabilisation of the [111] 6d atomic orbitals is larger than that of the 5d in Au, and hence it might be expected that π back-donation would be largest in Cl–[111]–PH3.
Result	Table 4 also gives non-relativistic and relativistic metal ndπ populations in Cl–M–PH3.
Conclusion	The relativistic values for Cu and Ag, and the non-relativistic values for Au and [111], are very close to 4.0 for all methods, suggesting very little π back-donation in these cases.
Result	By contrast, the relativistic values for Au, and particularly [111], are significantly smaller than the non-relativistic, by ca. 0.25 e– in the [111] calculations.
Conclusion	This suggests that there may be well be some π back-donation in Cl–Au–PH3, with an increased effect in Cl–[111]–PH3.
Conclusion	As with the first explanation, the computational data lend weight to the π backbonding argument.
Background	However, a significant relativistic bond length contraction has been found previously in [111]H,28 in which there cannot be any metal-ligand π effects.
Conclusion	This would suggest that enhanced π back-donation is unlikely to be the sole source of the relativistic M–P bond length contractions in Cl–Au–PH3 and Cl–[111]–PH3, although it may have a role.
Background	Perhaps one needs to look no further than the original paper of Ziegler et al. These workers found that the relativistic bond length contraction decreased in the order Au2 > AuH > AuCl, and noted “the smallness of relativistic effects in AuCl compared to Au2 and AuH, is probably due to the fact that this compound is much more ionic than the other two, so that the valence orbitals are largely concentrated on the Cl centre, where relativistic effects are substantially smaller than on Au”27.
Background	When studying metallophilicity in [X–M–PR3]2, it has become traditional to adopt the following procedure.
Method	The geometry of the monomer is first optimised using the favoured method (usually MP2 or B3LYP).
Method	Subsequently, a series of single point calculations is performed on a dimeric system in which each monomer is held fixed at its previously optimised geometry.
Method	The two monomers are oriented at a P1–M1–M2–P2 dihedral angle of 90°, as shown in Fig. 1a and discussed in the Introduction, and r(M–M) is varied.
Method	At each value of r(M–M), a counterpoise corrected single point calculation is performed, and the results used to generate a metallophilic interaction energy curve.
Background	We have also adopted this procedure, and the results are discussed below in section B(ii).
Background	Before addressing these data, however, it is worth taking a moment to emphasise that this 90° orientation is not the most stable structure for these compounds.
Background	The 90° orientation is chosen so as to minimise the dipolar interactions between the monomers, and if the restriction to P1–M1–M2–P2 = 90° is lifted, the molecules relax to an orientation in which this angle tends to 180°, as shown in Fig. 1b.
Result	Table 5 contains the r(M–M), P1–M1–M2–P2 and interaction energy data for [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au, [111]), optimised solely within the constraint of C2 symmetry.
Result	Comparison of Table 5 with Table 6 (which contains analogous data for the systems restricted to 90°) reveals that in all cases the relaxation of the 90° restriction produces larger P1–M1–M2–P2, significantly bigger interaction energies and, in almost all cases, smaller r(M–M).
Conclusion	This illustrates the need for the 90° restriction when studying metallophilicity in these systems; without it, the dipolar interactions dominate.
Background	It should also be noted that, for Cu and Ag, even the Fig. 1b structure is not the most stable.
Result	For these metals the most stable structure is that shown schematically in Fig. 1c.
Result	We calculate this Cl-bridged structure to be 69 (61) and 84 (50) kJ mol–1 more stable than 1b for Cu and Ag respectively at the MP2 (B3LYP) level.
Result	By contrast, we could not locate an analogous structure using relativistic methods for Au and [111].
Background	Structure 1c has been studied previously for the group 11 metals.12,29–31
Background	El-Bahraoui et al. conducted a topological analysis of ρ(r) in [Cl–Cu–PH3]2, and concluded that there is no clear Cu⋯Cu interaction in this structure, on the basis of the absence of a bond critical point between the metal atoms.
Background	Liu et al. noted that 1b is the favoured structure for [Cl–Cu–NH3]2 on account of significant intramolecular H-bonding, but that replacement of NH3 by PH3 reduces the H-bonding to the point at which 1c becomes the most stable geometry.
Background	Very recently Schwerdtfeger et al. located structure 1c for non-relativistic gold, (relativistic gold optimised to structure 1b, as in our calculations).
Background	These workers also report that structure 1c was located for Cu and Ag, and note that, for [X–M–PR3]2 (M = Cu, Ag, Au) “the gold compounds seem to polymerise with linear [X–M–PR3] chains at a P–Au–Au–P torsion angle of 90° thus maximising the aurophilic interaction, while the corresponding copper and silver compounds oligomerise with PR3 ligands attached to M2X2 units with bridging ligands X such as Cl or Br”.
Conclusion	In this context, the size of the R group in [X–Au–PR3]2 clearly influences the relative stabilities of structures 1a and 1b; large R favour 1a and optimum metallophilicity.
Method	We now turn to our calculations in which the P1–M1–M2–P2 dihedral angles are fixed to 90° (structure 1a).
Result	The r(M–M) and interaction energies (Eint) are collected in Table 6, together with data from previous MP2 studies, and some of these data are also shown in Fig. 3.
Method	In all cases bar [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 at the CCSD(T) level, our basis α (see Computational Details) results are obtained from calculations in which the method used to calculate Eint is the same as that used to optimise the geometry of the monomer.
Method	As it proved impossible to fully converge the geometry of Cl–[111]–PH3 at the CCSD(T) level, we have used the CCSD monomer geometry to obtain the CCSD(T) r(M–M) and Eint data for [Cl–[111]–PH3]2.
Method	We believe that very little error will be introduced by this approach, given the almost identical CCSD and CCSD(T) geometries of the Cu, Ag and Au monomers (Table 2).
Result	Table 6 reveals that there is effectively no metallophilic interaction at the HF level.
Background	This is well known, and was first pointed out by Pyykkö more than a decade ago.4,5
Result	The inclusion of electron correlation through the use of post-HF techniques, however, changes the picture markedly, with very significant decreases in r(M–M) and concomitant increases in Eint.
Result	As is best illustrated by Fig. 3a, there is a general trend to increasing r(M–M) as group 11 is descended.
Result	Among the post-HF methods, the MP2 approach produces the shortest r(M–M) in all cases bar Cu (for which the CCSD(T) value is smallest).
Result	The QCISD and CCSD data are very similar to one another, which is not surprising given the methodological similarities,32 with the CCSD(T) values being slightly shorter than the QCISD and CCSD for a given metal.
Result	The MP2 and LMP2 values of Magnko et al10. are smaller than our ab initio data, probably as a result of the use of bigger basis sets in these calculations.
Result	Although the trend in the MP2 r(M–M) values from Cu → [111] is broadly similar to the QCISD and coupled cluster data, the increase in MP2 r(M–M) with increasing metal atomic number is not as pronounced.
Result	Thus, while the r(Ag–Ag) values for MP2 and CCSD differ by 0.14 Å, the difference in the corresponding r([111]–[111]) data is 0.5 Å.
Result	The difference between the MP2 and the other post-HF methods is even more noticeable in Eint (Fig. 3b).
Result	Our basis α MP2 calculations predict an almost uniform increase in Eint from [Cl–Cu–PH3]2 to the transactinide system, from –13.5 to –32.0 kJ mol–1.
Result	The trend in the MP2 and LMP2 data of Magnko et al. for Cu, Ag and Au is similar.
Result	However, the trend in the QCISD and coupled cluster Eint values is quite different.
Result	There is a small increase in Eint from Cu → Ag, but then there is a decrease from Ag → [111].
Result	Eint for [Cl–Cu–PH3]2 at the MP2 and CCSD(T) levels is very similar (–13.5 vs. –15.3 kJ mol–1) but for the transactinide system the MP2 value is three times the CCSD(T).
Conclusion	The discrepancy between the MP2 and the other post-HF data is significant for two reasons.
Problem	First, as we are seeking information about the trend in metallophilicity as group 11 is descended, it is of concern that the conclusion from the MP2 data is exactly the opposite to that from the QCISD and coupled cluster approaches, at least as far as Eint is concerned.
Conclusion	QCISD and coupled cluster theory predict that Eint decreases from Ag → [111] whereas MP2 predicts the reverse.
Background	Second, the vast majority of the previous work in this area has been done using variants of the MP2 approach, i.e. using the method which, using basis α at least, is inconsistent with the other post-HF techniques.
Method	In order to determine the extent to which the discrepancy in the basis α Eint trend between MP2 and the other post-HF techniques is a consequence of the different geometries obtained by the different methods, we have calculated the MP2, CCSD and CCSD(T) Eint values at the QCISD minimum energy structures.
Result	The results are shown in Fig. 4, together with the QCISD data for comparison.
Result	It can be seen that there is little difference between the QCISD//QCISD and the CCSD//QCISD Eint data, which is not surprising given the similarities between the methods noted earlier.
Result	The CCSD(T)//QCISD Eint values for Au and [111] are also quite similar to the CCSD(T)//CCSD(T) ones in Fig. 3b, the values being slightly less negative at the QCISD geometries, as expected.
Result	The MP2//QCISD Eint value for [Cl–Cu–PH3]2 is very similar to the MP2//MP2.
Result	For [Cl–M–PH3]2 (M = Ag, Au and [111]), the MP2//QCISD Eint values are less negative than the MP2//MP2 by several kJ mol–1, but the general trend in the MP2//QCISD data is the same as that for the MP2//MP2, i.e. the metallophilic interaction increases down group 11.
Background	This is once again at odds with the other post-HF techniques.
Method	In order to probe the extent to which our conclusions are dependent upon basis set size, we have conducted additional MP2 and CCSD(T) calculations using larger basis sets (β and γ, see Computational Details).
Method	As geometry optimisations would be prohibitively costly using these bigger basis sets, we have confined ourselves to single point calculations at the basis α geometries.
Conclusion	For Cu, Ag and Au, the basis γ MP2 Eint values are 3–4 kJ mol–1 more negative than the basis α data, i.e. the trend to larger Eint with increasing atomic number persists at this level of theory.
Conclusion	Unlike our basis α data, however, the value of basis γ Eint for the [111] compound is essentially the same as for Au, i.e. the trend to increasing Eint as the metal becomes heavier is interrupted at [111] for the larger basis set.
Result	By contrast to the MP2 data, the CCSD(T) single points using the larger basis sets do not change the trend in Eint as group 11 is descended.
Result	There remains an increase in Eint from Cu → Ag for both bases β and γ, followed by a slight reduction to Au.
Result	This reduction continues to [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 at basis β.
Background	So does the metallophilic interaction energy increase or decrease down group 11?
Background	MP2 is generally regarded as the least accurate of the post-HF techniques we have used.32
Background	Indeed, for a system which is well defined by a single reference wavefunction, the CCSD(T) approach should be close to the full CI limit for the basis set employed.
Result	The T1 diagnostic values for the CCSD(T)/basis α calculations at the maximum Eint structures are 0.030, 0.017, 0.017 and 0.014 respectively for the Cu, Ag, Au and [111] dimers.
Result	The limit above which there may be appreciable multi-reference character to the wavefunction is generally taken to be 0.02, so we can see that with the exception of the Cu dimer, all of our systems are below this limit (perhaps the Cu dimer breaks the Eint trend from [111] → Au → Ag because it may not be as well-defined by a single reference).
Conclusion	This suggests that the Ag, Au and [111] coupled cluster data should be reliable, and we are therefore inclined to conclude that the strength of the metallophilic interaction decreases from [Cl–Ag–PH3]2 to [Cl–[111]–PH3]2.
Background	As noted in the introduction, van der Waals-like interactions cannot reliably be described by current density functional approaches;10 indeed, Pyykkö writes that “the dispersion-type, R–6 terms resulting from the dipole-dipole Hamiltonian in second order, are not explicitly included in the derivation of DFT”.3
Method	Nevertheless, out of curiosity we have studied structure 1a using two of the most common DFT approaches, the pure DFT BP86 method and the hybrid B3LYP variant.
Result	The calculation of r(M–M) and Eint was done in the same way as for the ab initio calculations described above, and the results are given in Table 6 and Fig. 3.
Result	We do not wish to dwell overly on these data, but note that the DFT values are not significantly out of step with the ab initio results.
Result	The BP86 calculations produce a negative interaction energy between the two [Cl–M–PH3] monomers in all cases, the value of which decreases down group 11, as is the case for all of the post-HF methods bar MP2.
Result	B3LYP produces smaller Eint values than any of the other methods, but the lack of a converged structure for the transactinide dimer precludes any conclusions as to the trend in Eint down group 11.
Conclusion	It would therefore appear that DFT can reproduce metallophilic interactions, at least in the present systems, although the reasons why are not clear.
Problem	In this contribution we have reported the results of ab initio and density functional calculations of Cl–M–PH3 (M = Cu, Ag, Au, [111]) monomers and dimers.
Background	The key conclusions may be summarised as follows.
Conclusion	For the monomers there is an increase in r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) between M = Cu and Ag.
Conclusion	As M changes to Au and [111], r(M–Cl) remains essentially constant while r(M–P) decreases significantly.
Conclusion	Evidence is found to support previous explanations based on (a) metal ns populations and (b) M → P π backdonation, but we cannot state categorically which, if either, explanation is correct.
Conclusion	The effects of relativity on r(M–Cl) and r(M–P) for the heavier group 11 elements are very significant, 30 and 60 pm respectively for M = [111] (the relativistic bonds being the shorter).
Result	For the dimers, the most stable structure for M = Cu and Ag is that shown schematically in Fig. 1c.
Result	For M = Au and [111], structure 1b is the most stable.
Problem	Notwithstanding these observations we, like many previous workers, have analysed the metallophilic interactions between the two monomers oriented as in structure 1a.
Conclusion	In agreement with previous results, we find that there is essentially no metallophilic interaction at the Hartree–Fock level.
Result	The inclusion of electron correlation at the MP2 level generates significant metallophilicity, which increases steadily down group 11 from –13.5 kJ mol–1 for [Cl–Cu–PH3]2 to –32 kJ mol–1 for [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 at the basis α level.
Result	This trend has also been found previously from MP2 calculations.
Result	By contrast, including electron correlation through the QCISD and coupled cluster approaches changes the trend in metallophilic interaction down group 11.
Conclusion	QCISD, CCSD and CCSD(T) calculations all suggest that [Cl–Ag–PH3]2 has the strongest metallophilic attraction, and that the interaction weakens from Ag → Au → [111] (e.g. from –16.7 kJ mol–1 in [Cl–Ag–PH3]2 to –11.2 kJ mol–1 in [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 at the CCSD(T)/basis α level).
Conclusion	Increasing the size of the basis set does not qualitatively change the CCSD(T) results.
Conclusion	We conclude that metallophilicity is weaker in [Cl–[111]–PH3]2 than in any of the lighter group 11 analogues, and suggest that MP2 may not be the most appropriate technique for the study of this effect.

Problem	Theoretical study on the coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane C35H30
Result	Using geometry optimization and DFT method at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory for C35H30, an equilibrium geometry is identified that has the form of a coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane.
Problem	Vibrational frequencies and the IR spectrum are computed at the same level of theory.
Problem	The heat of formation for C35H30 has been estimated in this paper.
Conclusion	The heat of formation of C35H30 as well as the vibrational analysis indicates that this system enjoys sufficient stability to allow for its experimental preparation.
Background	Since the discovery of C60 in 1985, numerous papers have been published on the investigation of polyhedral molecules, such as fullerenes and polyhedral hydrocarbons.
Background	Each of these molecules has only one cage, for example C60 and dodecahedrane.
Background	As is known, every carbon atom can form four bonds with other atoms.
Background	Since each of the carbon atoms at the cage surface of the polyhedral molecule only forms three bonds with other carbon atoms at the cage surface, it may form another bond with other atom.
Background	When two cages share a same polygon, a coplanar double-cage molecule can form.
Background	This is similar to two benzene rings sharing one CC bond to form a naphthalene molecule.
Background	However, until now, only a few coplanar poly-cage molecules have been reported.1
Background	It has been stated that “the dodecahedrane geometry is exquisite in its perfection”.2
Background	The two landmark syntheses of dodecahedrane, by Paquette3a and by Prinzbach and Weber,3b were of great interest.
Background	Owing to its unusual structure, dodecahedrane has also provided theorists with a severe test case for the calculation of geometry and properties.
Method	These include assessments of its vibrational frequencies,4 ordering of orbital energies,5,6 formation of inclusion compounds,6,7 NMR spin–spin coupling constants,8 and heat of formation.9
Background	When two dodecahedrane cages share a same pentagon, a coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane molecule C35H30 can form.
Background	In this case, every carbon atom at the shared polygon forms four bonds with other carbon atoms.
Background	To the best of our knowledge, the coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane C35H30 molecule has not been reported before.
Problem	This paper is a theoretical attempt to study C35H30 by using the DFT method at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory.10
Problem	For the sake of understanding the thermodynamic stability of C35H30, the heat of formation ΔH0f of C35H30 was estimated according to the calculated energy change for the process:and the experimental heat of formation for dodecahedrane C20H20.
Result	ΔH0f of C35H30 is 51.3 kcal mol−1, it is larger than that of dodecahedrane, but smaller than that of the cubane C8H8.
Conclusion	Thus we believe that C35H30 has sufficient stability to allow its experimental preparation.
Result	The predicted structure of molecule C35H30 is shown in Fig. 1.
Method	The full geometry optimization was performed by the energy gradient method at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory with the GAUSSIAN 94 program11 system.
Method	In the starting geometry of optimization for C35H30 it was assumed that each C20 cage in the C35H30 molecule is similar to that of dodecahedrane.
Method	To summarize, the length of the carbon–carbon bonds is 1.54 Å and that of carbon–hydrogen bonds is 1.09 Å, the CCC angle is 108° and the CCH angle is 110.9°.
Method	In the optimization, the symmetry was restricted to D5h.
Problem	Vibrational frequencies were determined first to verify the nature of the stationary point structure, second to examine zero-point energy corrections on calculating the heat of formation of the molecule, and third to predict vibrational frequencies for unknown stable species for the sake of their future experimental identification by IR spectroscopy and the assignment of the observed frequencies.
Method	For the sake of comparison, the geometry of dodecahedrane C20H20 was first optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory.
Result	The bond length of C–C is 1.556 Å and that of C–H is 1.096 Å, respectively.
Result	The bond length of C–C is slightly larger than the experimental range of C–C bond lengths, 1.535–1.541 Å, reported for the X-ray structure.12
Result	The bond angle of CCC is 108° and the HCC angle is 110.9°.
Result	The geometry of C35H30 optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G* level is shown in Table 1 with the numbered system of carbon and hydrogen atoms given in Fig. 1.
Result	Net atomic charges of C35H30 obtained at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are listed in Table 2 and those of dodecahedrane are also given in Table 2 for the sake of comparison.
Result	All hydrogen atoms of C35H30 have positive net charges and values very close to that of dodecahedrane.
Result	As for carbon atoms, only at shared pentagon do they have positive charges, while the others have negative charges.
Result	Some other properties of C35H30 obtained at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are listed in Table 3 and those of dodecahedrane also listed here.
Result	The energies of the HOMO and LUMO of C35H30 at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are −6.91 and 0.86 eV, respectively.
Conclusion	The HOMO is doubly degenerate and the LUMO is non-degenerate.
Result	The energies of the HOMO and LUMO for dodecahedrane at the same level of theory are −7.09 and 0.89 eV, respectively.
Background	A large HOMO–LUMO gap has long been recognized as being correlated with kinetic and structural stability while a small gap is associated with reactivity.13–19
Result	The HOMO–LUMO gaps of C35H30 and dodecahedrane are 7.77 and 7.99 eV, respectively.
Conclusion	This illustrates that C35H30 is more likely to react by electron donation than dodecahedrane, and is more likely to react by accepting electrons than dodecahedrane.
Conclusion	Thus the stability of C35H30 is lower than that of dodecahedrane.
Problem	In order to verify whether C35H30 is a minimum at the potential energy hypersurface or not, vibrational frequencies have been calculated at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory.
Result	The predicted vibrational frequencies for C35H30 are listed in Table 4.
Result	Vibrational frequencies in Table 4 are not scaled.
Result	From Table 4, it can be seen that the molecule C35H30 has no imaginary vibrational frequency and is a true minimum at the potential energy hypersurface.
Background	The symmetry of C35H30 is helpful in making the assignments.
Result	Decomposition of the reducible representation of vibrational degrees of freedom assuming the D5h point group, gives Γvib = 13a1′(R) + 6a1″ + 19e1′(IR) + 18e1″ + 6a2′ + 12a2″(IR) + 20e2′(R) + 19e2″of which the a1′, a1″, e1″, a2′, e2′ and e2″ normal modes are IR forbidden by symmetry and their IR intensities are identically zero.
Result	The other modes e1′ and a2″ are IR active, but many theoretical IR intensities of these modes are smaller than 1.0 km mol−1.
Result	The modes a1′ and a2″ are Raman active.
Background	As is well known quantum-chemical methods tend to overestimate the values of vibrational frequencies.
Result	For dodecahedrane, the experimental values of IR allowed frequencies20 (symmetry t1u) are 728, 1298 and 2945 cm−1, but those obtained here at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are 732.4, 1350.6 and 3091.8 cm−1; the experimental values of Raman allowed frequencies20 (symmetry ag and hg) are 480, 676, 840, 1092, 1164, 1324, 2938 and 2954 cm−1, and those obtained here at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory are 481.7, 674.0, 854.5, 1114.7, 1203.6, 1376.5, 3077.0 and 3105.2 cm−1.
Result	Comparing the experimental values exp and the B3LYP/6-31G* theoretical values calc of vibrational frequencies for dodecahedrane, the differences between exp and calc at different frequency ranges are different.
Method	Scaling factors for the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory have been estimated by using the experimental and theoretical vibrational frequencies for dodecahedrane given above.
Result	When vibrational frequencies are <1000 cm−1, the average scaling factor is 0.9941; when vibrational frequencies are in the range of 1000–2000 cm−1, the average scaling factor is 0.9674; when vibrational frequencies are in the range of 2000–4000 cm−1, the average scaling factor is 0.9529.
Method	According to vibrational frequencies in Table 4 and the average scaling factors given above, the IR spectrum of C35H30 has been simulated and reported in Fig. 2 and Fig. 3.
Result	In Fig. 2, the IR allowed vibrational frequencies are in the range of 600–1400 cm−1; in Fig. 3, the IR allowed vibrational frequencies are in the range of 2880–2980 cm−1.
Result	In the other ranges, vibrational frequencies are not IR active or the IR intensities are zero.
Conclusion	The simulated IR spectrum can be used as evidence to identify the molecule C35H30.
Background	What is the stability of the molecule C35H30?
Problem	In order to answer this, the approach to a theoretical estimate for the heat of formation ΔHof of the molecule C35H30 is presented here.
Method	First, the energy change ΔHr for reaction (1):was estimated by using the total energy E and the ZPE for C35H30, dodecahedrane and H2 at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory.
Result	The values of E and ZPE for C35H30 and dodecahedrane are given in Table 3, and those for H2 are −1.17548 au and 6.4 kcal mol−1, respectively.
Method	The energy change ΔHr of the reaction (1) was calculated as follows:
Method	When the energy change ΔHr of the reaction (1) and the heat of formation ΔHof for C20H20 and H2 are known, the heat of formation ΔHof for C35H30 can be estimated according to reaction (1).
Result	The result is as follows: The experimental heat of formation ΔHof for C20H20 and H2 are 18.2 kcal mol−1,21 and zero, respectively.
Method	The energy change ΔHr of the reaction (1) has been calculated above.
Result	Thus ΔHof for the molecule C35H30 can be estimated as follows: The estimated heat of formation for the molecule C35H30 is 51.2 kcal mol−1.
Result	This is larger than that of dodecahedrane, but smaller than that of cubane, 148.7 kcal mol−1.22
Conclusion	So, purely from the thermodynamic point of view the coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane molecule C35H30 is more stable than cubane C8H8.
Conclusion	Since cubane has been synthesized, C35H30 has sufficient stability to allow its experimental preparation.
Method	The thermodynamically stable geometry of the coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane molecule C35H30 was optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G* level of theory; its structure is of D5h symmetry.
Result	According to heat of formation of the molecule estimated here, C35H30 is more stable than cubane.
Conclusion	Since cubane has been synthesized, C35H30 should have sufficient stability to allow its experimental preparation.
Background	The coplanar double-cage dodecahedrane molecule C35H30 is a molecule with only one type of cage, a C20 cage.
Problem	We believe that coplanar poly-cage molecules could form with the same or different kind of cages.
Background	A coplanar double-cage molecule C25H20 with different cages is shown in Fig. 4.
Background	The variety of coplanar poly-cage molecules of hydrocarbons is large.
Conclusion	If coplanar poly-cage hydrocarbons could be prepared, the number of polyhedral hydrocarbons might be increased substantially.

Problem	Fabrication of 2D-protein arrays using biotinylated thiols: results from fluorescence microscopy and atomic force microscopy
Problem	The coupling of a fluorescently labelled protein, streptavidin, to biotinylated organic surfaces is investigated using fluorescence microscopy (FM) and atomic force microscopy (AFM).
Method	In order to study the importance of non-specific adsorption investigations were carried out using two-dimensionally structured self-assembled monolayers (SAMs), which were fabricated using micro-contact printing.
Conclusion	The relative amount of specific vs. non-specific adsorption could be readily determined by comparing the amount of streptavidin adsorbed on adjacent regions consisting of biotinylated organothiolates and of protein-resistant oligoethyleneglycol (OEG)-thiols.
Background	An important strategy in molecular architecture used for non-covalent coupling of molecular units is based on the strong binding of biotin to the protein avidin.1
Background	Biotin is a fairly small molecule which can be easily attached to surfaces and to other molecules.
Background	Streptavidin will bind to surface-anchored biotin with high selectivity and a large binding energy.
Background	Since it has four binding pockets for biotin a subsequent attachment of further biotinylated moieties is possible thus providing an elegant way of coupling e.g. biotinylated proteins to appropriately functionalized surfaces.
Background	A major problem, however, with regard to this type of molecular architecture is the non-specific binding of streptavidin, i.e. the adhesion to organic surfaces which are not biotinylated.
Background	Since the non-specific adsorption of proteins to surfaces is a topic which currently attracts a large amount of interest,2 we have carried out a systematic study of specific vs. non-specific binding in case of streptavidin by using microscopic techniques (atomic force microscopy, or AFM; and fluorescence microscopy).
Background	Streptavidin and avidin belong to the same super family of biotin-binding proteins but they differ in origin: Streptavidin is extracted from a bacterium called Streptomyces avidinii while avidin is found in egg-white and oviduct of birds, amphibians and reptiles.
Background	Each of both proteins consists of four identical subunits and each subunit is capable of binding one D-biotin in its binding pocket.3
Background	Upon binding the D-biotin is deeply buried in the binding pocket.
Background	Thus the avidin-biotin system is frequently considered a general model for key-lock-interactions to study molecular recognition processes.
Background	Streptavidin and avidin are famous for their high affinities towards biotin.
Background	The tight binding of the biotin results in a very high affinity constant of KA ∼ 1015 M−1(1) which implies that the binding of biotin towards streptavidin or avidin is nearly irreversible under physiological conditions.
Background	For this reason the avidin–biotin system is occasionally referred to as a biological glue.
Background	Many strategies for fabricating biosensor arrays take advantage of these properties of the avidins.4
Background	Frequently fluorescently labelled avidins have been used as molecular markers that are bound to biotinylated targets.
Background	Other approaches make use of the tetramer structure of avidin: avidins are used as building blocks for a sandwich layer which is bound on one side to a biotinylated support and on the other side to biotinylated target molecules.5
Background	Avidin is not only used as biotin-binding interface but also as a signal amplifier.6
Background	If an avidin is attached towards a biotinylated sample there are still up to three free remaining binding pockets to which dyes, fluorescence labels or enzymes can be linked to.
Background	Since the introduction of micro-contact printing (μCP) by Whitesides a fast and cheap method for creation of laterally structured metal surfaces is available.7–9
Background	Micro-contact printing (μCP) using PDMS-stamps has been used to create laterally structured devices for array biosensors which should finally be used for parallel detection of different biological molecules.8,10–12
Background	Recently it has been proposed to employ light sensitive molecules for the lateral structuring of SAMs.13,14
Background	One group reported about a caged biotin which becomes “uncaged” if exposed to a laser beam of a certain wavelength.14
Background	2D-protein patterns have been studied not only with fluorescence microscopy but also with microscopic techniques as atomic force microscopy and SPR-microscopy.15,16
Background	Our own work focuses on laterally structured biotinylated SAMs and the evaluation of binding properties of streptavidin using AFM and fluorescence microscopy.
Method	Polished silicon wafers with a 100 surface termination were purchased from Prolog Semicor LTD, Ukraine.
Method	The wafers were cut into 4 mm × 8 mm pieces and stored in pure acetone.
Method	Before usage they were rinsed with pure acetone and absolute ethanol (EtOH).
Method	After drying in a stream of nitrogen the substrates were installed in a Leybold Inficon XTC/2 metal evaporator.
Method	First a layer of 80 Å titanium @ 2 Å s−1 was deposited to improve the adhesion of the subsequently deposited gold layer.
Method	Gold has been evaporated @ 15 Å s−1 to a final thickness of approximately 1250 Å.
Method	Evaporation has been done at room temperature and a pressure of approximately 10−7 mbar.
Method	The evaporated silicon wafers were stamped via micro contact-printing (μCP) which is well established in literature.8
Method	As a master we use a block of glass with a periodic pattern of deepened square areas (40 μm × 40 μm) that are surrounded by 2.5 μm raised and 10 μm wide bridges.
Method	An inverse elastic replicate (stamp) is created with polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS).
Method	The stamp is loaded by incubation with a drop (30 μl applied from a pipette) of an 1.37 mM ethanolic solution of an OEG6-thiol (for chemical structure see Fig. 1) for 90 s then the stamp is dried in a stream of nitrogen and pressed gently towards the gold surface for 90 s.
Method	After printing the stamp is removed and the samples were immersed into an ethanolic solution containing a mixture of two thiols: 1-mercaptoundecanol (OH-thiol) and a biotinylated thiol (Biotin-thiol) (for chemical structures see Fig. 1).
Method	The total thiol concentration in the mixtures (3:1 unless otherwise noted) was kept constant at ∼50 μM.
Method	After immersion the laterally structured self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) were rinsed with absolute ethanol.
Method	All samples were incubated at room temperature with a streptavidin-Alexa-Fluor488® conjugate (Molecular Probes).
Background	The attached fluorescence label (Alexa-Fluor488-group) exhibits spectroscopic properties which are similar to those of fluorescein (λex ∼ 488 nm and λem ∼ 520 nm) but with an enhanced stability towards bleaching.
Method	In an initial set of experiments incubation times and concentrations were varied so as to minimize non-specific binding of streptavidin towards OEG6-covered regions.
Method	Incubation times (pure contact times) of 5 s together with streptavidin concentration of 200 nM were found to yield good results.
Result	At higher incubation concentrations and/or times a significantly larger amount of aggregated, randomly distributed streptavidin clusters was observed.
Method	Immediately after streptavidin incubation the substrates were intensively rinsed with pure water obtained from a MilliQ-system.
Method	The rinsed samples were stored in pure water until they were investigated with fluorescence or atomic force microscopy.
Method	Streptavidin-Alexa-Fluor488® was used without further purification in a buffer containing the following components: 150 mM NaCl (Baker), 10 mM Hepes (Gerbu) and 5 mM MgCl2 (Baker).
Method	The pH was adjusted to 7.4 with NaOH and HCl.
Method	The incubation solutions were used multiple times and stored at +4 °C in between the experiments.
Method	The concentrations of the incubation solutions have been checked in regular intervals using a fluorometer (Spex II).
Method	For simplicity in the following Streptavidin-Alexa-Fluor488® is referred to as streptavidin.
Result	The ethylene glycol groups in the OEG6 thiol are rather sensitive to oxidation.
Result	Even when storing them at +4 °C a noticeable degradation (as evidenced by the onset of protein adsorption on SAMs made from the thiol) was observed already after a period of 4 weeks.
Method	For this reason the pure, freshly synthesised OEG6 thiol was stored at −15 °C under a nitrogen atmosphere.
Method	Confocal fluorescence microscopy was carried out using a confocal laser scanning microscope MRC 1024 (Biorad, Hemel Hempstead, UK).
Method	The instrument is also equipped with an Ar-Ion laser (the line at 488 nm was used for the excitation of the fluorophor) and an inverted microscope (Nikon, Eclipse TE-300 DV, infinity corrected optics) with a 60× water immersion objective (NA 1.2, collar rim correction, Nikon).
Method	In front of the photomultiplier serving as a detector a bandpass filter (520 nm ± 20 nm, half-bandwidth) is mounted for selective fluorescence detection.
Method	During fluorescence imaging the samples are fixed in a home-made sample holder to be able to perform fluorescence microscopy in a “contact free” manner (see Fig. 2).
Method	Special care was taken not to mechanically damage the substrate surface before and during fluorescence imaging since we used the confocal fluorescence microscopy for a pre-screening of substrates before they were investigated with the AFM.
Method	Fluorescence images were recorded using a laser power of 1 mW, in the focal plane of the objective lens.
Method	All images were obtained by accumulation of four single images (∼1 s per image).
Method	Bleaching experiments were conducted according to the following procedure: first, the microscope is switched from the accumulate mode to the direct mode (permanent scanning) and the electronic zoom is turned to maximum (i.e. 10×).
Method	Then the zoomed area is irradiated for 3 min at full laser power (1 mW).
Method	After this bleaching period the microscope is switched to the accumulate mode and the zoom to its initial value.
Method	Then imaging is performed as described before.
Method	The atomic force micrographs were recorded using a Nanoscope IIIa (Digital Instruments) AFM.
Method	The microscope was operated in two different modes: in contact- and tapping- mode.
Method	During contact-AFM silicon nitrite cantilevers with force constants from 0.06 N m−1 to 0.58 N m−1 and in tapping-AFM TESP cantilevers with force constants of 20 and 100 N m−1 were employed.
Method	Topographic images were generated in both modes from the height information of the samples.
Method	In contact mode additionally the lateral force microscopy (LFM) mode has been used to image local friction differences of the sample.
Method	Substrates were investigated before and after protein incubation with contact-AFM and tapping-AFM.
Method	Before investigation all samples were taken out of distilled water and dried in a stream of nitrogen.
Method	All AFM measurements were taken in air.
Result	In Fig. 3 we show typical AFM-micrographs obtained for the laterally structured SAMs using different imaging modes.
Result	As expected, the topographic images (b and d) reveal a poor contrast only, but when using the friction-mode (a) the lateral pattern produced by the μCP-process is clearly visible.
Result	The regions appearing as bright squares correspond to the part of the Au-substrate where the OEG6-thiol was stamped on the surface, the darker stripes correspond to the SAM formed during the subsequent immersion into the 3:1 mixture of the OH-terminated and the biotinylated thiol.
Result	In the upper row on the left a LFM-mode image and on the right a phase-image is presented.
Result	The bottom row shows topographic (height) images.
Result	Fig. 4 shows two micrographs obtained with the fluorescence microscope for patterned samples after incubation in the streptavidin solution.
Result	The high contrast in both images reveals that despite the quenching due to the close proximity of the Au-layer the pattern produced by the μCP-process can be imaged with high contrast.
Result	The edges of the patterns are sharp and well defined.
Result	A low density of randomly distributed bright spots resulting from non-specifically bound clusters of aggregated protein is observed.
Result	Samples investigated before incubation revealed a non-textured, weak background signal (data not shown).
Result	This apparent residual fluorescence did not show any photo bleaching and results from the noise of the photo detector unit.
Method	Intentionally photo-bleached areas of streptavidin incubated samples revealed the same residual signal and were used for background subtraction.
Result	See Table 1 for detailed information on the contributions of different signal sources.
Method	Under imaging conditions the protein substrates were exposed to a laser power of approximately 1 mW for about 4 s.
Result	Significant bleaching was only observed after much longer exposition times (>20 s at 1 mW).
Result	The results shown in Fig. 4 and Table 1 clearly demonstrate that the streptavidin adsorbs preferentially on the stripes corresponding to the regions containing the biotinylated thiol.
Result	For the squares a much weaker fluorescence is observed.
Result	In case of the 4 week old OEG6-thiols (see squares in Fig. 4a) the fluorescence of the squares can be photo-bleached.
Result	This observation reveals that a significant amount of streptavidin has adsorbed to the 4 week old OEG6-thiols, indicating that the protein resistance of the aged OEG6-thiol SAM is significantly reduced.
Method	The total amount of streptavidin adsorbed on the OEG-terminated SAM surface can be determined quantitatively by correcting for the background (noise of the photomultiplier).
Result	As shown in Table 1 the total amount of adsorbed streptavidin corresponds to 13% of the total streptavidin adsorption on biotinylated surfaces.
Result	In contrast no bleaching is observed if the squares are prepared from fresh OEG6-solutions.
Result	In Fig. 4b we have included a part of a stripe into the photo bleaching to indicate where the bleaching was performed.
Result	These results promote the view that squares prepared from fresh OEG6-solutions almost completely resist streptavidin adsorption.
Result	In Fig. 5 we show results obtained by AFM in the contact (Fig. 5a) and tapping (Fig. 5b) mode for the patterned SAMs incubated for 5 s with a 200 nM streptavidin solution at room temperature.
Method	Contact mode images were taken at contact forces as low as possible in order to prevent mechanical deformation and/or disruption of the protein pattern.
Result	In both AFM imaging modes the 2D-pattern fabricated by the micro-contact printing process can be observed.
Result	A closer analysis, however, reveals a different height contrast between stripes and squares.
Result	The contact mode image reveals a significantly larger height difference than those obtained in the tapping mode.
Result	This is illustrated in Fig. 6 where line profiles (cross sections) corresponding to the white dashed lines in Fig. 5 are displayed.
Result	The line profile (filled circles in Fig. 6) from the contact AFM-micrograph reveals a height difference of 22.4 ± 3 Å between the top of the stripes and the top of the squares.
Result	This value has to be compared with the height of streptavidin of 45 Å as deduced from the streptavidin bulk structure5.
Result	When the 2D pattern generated by the micro-contact printing process is imaged prior to incubation the largest height difference seen in contact AFM mode between the squares (OEG6-SAM) and the stripes (3:1 OH- and biotinylated SAM) amounts to about 5 Å.
Result	Before comparing this value to that expected from the difference in length between that of the biotinylated thiol (37 Å) and the OEG-thiol we have to consider that the biotinylated thiols are diluted in the OH-terminated thiols (Fig. 7, left side).
Problem	During scanning the AFM-tip is expected to push the biotinylated thiols aside, thus effectively imaging the top surface of the considerably shorter OH-terminated thiols.
Problem	From the difference in length between the OH-terminated (15.4 Å) and the OEG6-thiol (38 Å) we thus expect a height difference of 22.6 Å between the squares and the stripes.
Problem	The situation is further complicated, however, because when imaging the SAM-surfaces in air at a relative moisture of between 45 and 65% a thin layer of water molecules is present on the SAM surfaces, and especially the hydrophilic ethylene-glycol-rich part of the OEG6-thiols will attract water molecules and swell upon hydration.
Conclusion	The fact that the fairly small height differences actually vanish when the tapping mode is employed further indicates that the height difference seen in contact mode also results to a major extent from differences in compressibility.
Conclusion	A quantitative analysis of all of these effects that contribute to the effective height difference seen in the AFM is impossible.
Result	When the lateral friction is used for imaging a better contrast is observed, the corresponding image (Fig. 3a) clearly shows the square and stripe pattern produced by the μCP-process.
Conclusion	The friction is larger on the squares, which is attributed to a slightly stronger interaction between the tip and the OEG6-thiols.
Conclusion	The friction contrast during imaging suggest that the AFM tip penetrates into the SAM (especially into the OEG6-SAM) during contact mode scanning (compared with discussion of SAM compression above).
Conclusion	Altogether the AFM results demonstrate that the pattern has successfully transferred from the PDMS stamp to the substrate.
Result	After incubation with fluorescently labelled streptavidin the data from fluorescence microscopy clearly reveal bright stripes and dark squares, indicating that the streptavidin has in fact been adsorbed preferentially on the stripes containing the biotinylated thiols.
Result	The total intensity observed on the stripes is consistent with the presence of one monolayer (see AFM measurements below) of intact streptavidin bound to the biotinylated surface of the biotinylated SAM.
Conclusion	Our results for patterned SAMs prepared from fresh thiol solutions are fully consistent with previous published surface plasmon resonance studies.5
Result	Surprisingly, the same experiments carried out with a 4 week old OEG-solution reveal already a significant amount of non-specific streptavidin adsorption.
Conclusion	We attribute the loss of protein resistance to oxidative particularly degradation of the OEG6-thiol.
Result	At first sight the data obtained by AFM after incubation of the patterned SAMs appear not to be consistent with the results from fluorescence microscopy, where streptavidin was found to preferentially adsorb on the stripes.
Problem	Naively, one would assume that this process will increase the thickness of the stripes by 45 Å, the dimension of streptavidin in its bulk, cuboid-like structure 45 × 45 × 53 Å3.5
Problem	In the tapping mode AFM micrographs, therefore, the stripes, which showed no height difference to the squares before incubation, should now appear 45 Å higher.
Result	In the AFM data, however, virtually no difference in height is seen between stripes and squares in tapping mode.
Result	In the contact mode AFM data, where significantly larger forces act between tip and sample, a height-difference of 22.4 ± 3 Å between the top of the stripes and the top of the squares is seen, with the stripes appearing higher.
Result	The stripes appearing higher is expected, since before incubation the stripes and squares had approximately the same height.
Result	But, again, the height difference is almost a factor two smaller than that expected from the bulk dimension of the streptavidin (see above).
Conclusion	Considering the results obtained from AFM before and after incubation and as well the information gained from fluorescence microscopy, we conclude that not more than a full monolayer of streptavidin can be present on the stripes, resulting in the scenario depicted in Fig. 7.
Conclusion	After removal from the water the streptavidin is partially dehydrated and reduced in dimension, resulting in a difference in height between the stripes and the squares which is smaller than the resolution in AFM tapping mode.
Conclusion	Similar reductions in size have been frequently discussed in previous work on imaging proteins with AFM in air.17
Result	When the incubated, patterned SAMs are imaged in AFM contact mode, the stripes appear about 22 Å above the squares.
Conclusion	This is not a true height difference but results form the larger compressibility of the OEG6-thiol compared to the already partially dehydrated and thus more compact streptavidin.
Conclusion	This scenario presented in Fig. 7 is then fully consistent with the results from fluorescence microscopy and the AFM results recorded prior to incubation.
Problem	We have investigated the interaction of fluorescently labelled streptavidin with SAMs exhibiting a pattern of biotinylated regions using fluorescence microscopy and AFM.
Result	In agreement with previous results we find specific binding of the streptavidin to the biotinylated parts of the organic surface, yielding a 2D pattern of streptavidin monolayers on the surface.
Conclusion	The combination of AFM and fluorescence microscopy with μCP is demonstrated to be extremely useful with regard to a characterisation of the binding of streptavidin to biotinylated surfaces.
Conclusion	In contrast to previous SPR studies,5,18 specific and non-specific binding events can be detected, distinguished and quantified on the same sample exposing different types of organic surfaces at the same time.
Method	In particular all different types of organic surfaces investigated share the same history and incubation conditions.
Conclusion	In the work presented here we were able to identity different origins of non-specific adsorption, namely non-specific adsorption on degraded OEG6-thiols and nucleation resulting in the formation of 3D-aggregates.
Conclusion	The results from fluorescence microscopy were essential with regard to the interpretation of the AFM data, in particular for a quantitative analysis of the height differences seen in the AFM micrographs.
Conclusion	The present approach demonstrates the advantages of using patterned organic surfaces in protein binding studies and suggests that obtaining stable protein-resistant surfaces by using oligoethylene terminated thiols is more complicated than anticipated previously.
Conclusion	In particular the possibility of degradation of the protein resistance has to be considered, a problem which only recently has started to attract attention19.

Problem	Kinetics of the reactions of the OH radical with 2-methyl-1-propanol, 3-methyl-1-butanol and 3-methyl-2-butanol between 241 and 373 K
Problem	Absolute rate constants have been measured for the gas-phase reactions of hydroxyl radicals with 2-methyl-1-propanol (k1), 3-methyl-1-butanol (k2) and 3-methyl-2-butanol (k3).
Method	Experiments were carried out using two different techniques, the relative rate method and the pulsed laser photolysis-laser induced fluorescence technique.
Result	The kinetic data were used to derive the following Arrhenius expressions in the temperature range 241–373 K(in units of cm3 molecule−1 s−1):k1 = (3.1±0.9) × 10−12exp[(352±82)/T]k2 = (2.8±0.9) × 10−12exp[(503±98)/T]k3 = (2.6±0.6) × 10−12exp[(456±65)/T]At 298 K, the reaction rate constants obtained by the two methods were in very good agreement.
Problem	The results are presented, discussed and used to estimate the atmospheric lifetimes for the studied alcohols.
Background	Alcohols are emitted into the atmosphere by a wide number of anthropogenic and natural processes.1
Background	The main sources are due to their use as solvent in different industries.
Background	For example, 2-methyl-1-propanol (isobutanol) is commonly used in coatings, as an additive in gasoline, an intermediate for glycol ethers and agricultural chemicals, and in anti-corrosion and anti-wear additives in engine oils.
Background	As a chemical intermediate, 2-methyl-1-propanol is used to make esters and ethers.
Background	3-methyl-1-butanol (isopentanol) is used as a chemical intermediate and solvent, and in pharmaceutical products and medicines.
Background	The release of these oxygenated volatile organic compounds is likely to contribute to the formation of ozone and other components of photochemical smog such as aldehydes, ketones and PAN-type compounds in urban areas.
Background	To assess the impact of these chemical species on the environment, a detailed understanding of the kinetics and mechanisms of their atmospheric degradation is required.
Background	The gas-phase atmospheric oxidation of alcohols is primary initiated by reaction with OH radicals.2,3
Background	Several kinetic studies of the OH reaction with alcohols have been reported previously.2,3
Background	However, only a limited number of studies have been conducted on the absolute measurements of the OH reaction rate constant with alcohols with more than four carbon atoms.
Problem	In this article, we report the rate coefficient data for the reactions of OH radicals with 2-methyl-1-propanol (k1), 3-methyl-1-butanol (k2) and 3-methyl-2-butanol (k3): OH + (CH3)2CHCH2OH→products: k1OH + (CH3)2CHCH2CH2OH→products: k2OH + (CH3)2CHCH(OH)CH3→products: k3Experiments were carried out using two different techniques.
Method	The pulsed laser photolysis–laser induced fluorescence (PLP-LIF) technique was used to determine the absolute rate coefficients for the above reactions in the temperature range 241–373 K at around 100 Torr while the relative method enabled us to conduct the measurements at room temperature and atmospheric pressure.
Background	As far as we know, this work provides the first temperature dependence studies for the three reactions.
Background	The only existing data reported in the literature are those of Hai et al. for 2-methyl-1-propanol4 Saunders et al. for 3-methyl-1-butanol5 and Wallington et al. for 3-methyl-2-butanol.6
Problem	The present work also aims at extending the kinetic data base to be used to develop structure-reactivity relationships for OH reaction with oxygenated VOCs.
Method	The experimental set-up used to measure the relative rate constant consisted of a 120 L Teflon bag and lamps positioned in a wooden box with the internal faces covered with aluminium foil.
Method	Measured amounts of reagents were flushed from calibrated bulbs into the Teflon bag through a stream of ultra pure air.
Method	The photoreactor was then filled to its full capacity at atmospheric pressure with ultra-pure air.
Method	OH radicals were produced by photolysing H2O2 using lamps emitting at 254 nm (Sylvania G30W) and illuminating the hole gas sample.
Method	A gas chromatograph equipped with flame ionisation detector (GC-FID, CP-3800 or Star 3600 CX, Varian) was used for the quantitative analysis of the reactants.
Method	Chromatographic separation was achieved by using a DB-1 capillary column (J&W Scientific, 30 m, 0.25 nm id, 5 μm film).
Method	The column was operated at the temperature of 318 K, and helium was used as the carrier gas.
Method	The pulsed laser photolysis–laser induced fluorescence (PLP-LIF) technique and the methodology used have been described in detail previously [e.g. in ref. 7], only a brief description is given here.
Method	Hydroxyl radicals were produced by photolysis of H2O2 at λ = 248 nm (KrF excimer laser) and their concentration was monitored at various reaction times ranging from about 10 μs to 10 ms by pulsed laser induced fluorescence.
Method	A Nd:YAG-pumped frequency-doubled dye laser was used to excite the OH radicals at λ = 282 nm.
Method	Fluorescence from the OH radicals was detected by a photomultiplier, fitted with a 309 nm narrow bandpass filter.
Method	The output pulse from the photomultiplier was integrated for a preset period by a gated charge integrator.
Method	Typically the fluorescence signal from 10 different delay times and 100 probe laser shots were averaged to generate OH concentration-time profiles over at least three lifetimes.
Method	H2O2 was introduced into the reaction cell by passing a small flow of helium through a glass bubbler containing H2O2 solution.
Method	Alcohols were premixed with helium in a 10 L glass bulb to form 0.2–0.6% mixture at a total pressure of about 850 Torr.
Method	The gas mixture, the photolytic precursor (H2O2), and the bath gas (helium) flowed through the cell with a linear velocity ranging from 3 to 10 cm s−1.
Method	The gas mixture illuminated was then renewed every two laser shots.
Method	The concentrations of the reactants were calculated from their mass flow rates, the temperature, and the pressure in the reaction cell.
Method	All flow rates were measured with mass flow meters calibrated by measuring the rate of pressure increase in a known volume.
Method	The pressure in the cell was measured with a capacitance manometer connected at the entrance of the cell.
Method	The helium carrier gas (UHP certified to >99.9995% (Alphagas)) was used without purification.
Method	The 50 wt % H2O2 solution, from Prolabo, was concentrated by bubbling helium through the solution to remove water for several days prior to use and constantly during the experiment.
Method	2-methyl-1-propanol (≥99.8 %), 3-methyl-1-butanol (≥99.5) and 3-methyl-2-butanol (≥99.5%) were from Fluka, they were further purified by repeated freeze, pump, and thaw cycles and fractional distillation before use.
Method	Relative rate constants were measured by comparing the OH reaction rate with alcohols to that with reference compounds:OH + alcohol → products: kalcoholOH + reference → products: krefAssuming that the compounds are only consumed by reaction with OH, it can be shown that:ln([alcohol]0/[alcohol]t) = (kalcohol/kref)ln([ref]0/[ref]t)where the subscripts 0 and t indicate concentrations before irradiation and at time t, respectively.
Method	The rate constant for the reaction of OH with the three alcohols were measured at (298 ± 3) K and 760 Torr, relatively to the rate constant of OH with 1-butanol and 1,3-dioxolane.
Method	The concentrations of alcohols and references were in the range 30–100 ppm.
Result	The compounds showed a good stability when they were mixed in the chamber with H2O2 and kept in the dark for about 1 h.
Result	Moreover, in absence of H2O2, the photolysis of the mixtures (alcohols and references in air) for more than one hour did not show any decrease in the concentrations.
Result	Fig. 1 shows an example of the obtained relative loss of alcohols versus that of the reference compounds in the presence of OH.
Result	In Table 1, the obtained rate constant ratios are given along with the derived rate constants for the OH reactions with the three alcohols.
Method	The rate constants of the reaction of OH with the references used in this work were taken as (8.47 ± 0.34) × 10−12 for 1-butanol,8 and (11.1 ± 0.9) × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 for 1,3-dioxolane.9
Result	While averaging the values from different experiments, we obtained:k1 = (0.92 ± 0.15) × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.k2 = (1.4 ± 0.2) × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.k3 = (1.25 ± 0.2) × 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.The quoted errors represent twice the standard deviation, to which we have added an estimated error of 10% on the reference rate constants.
Method	Kinetic experiments have been performed under pseudo-first-order conditions with the concentration of alcohols in large excess over that of OH concentration ([alcohol]0 > 100[OH]0).
Method	Typically, the initial OH concentration, [OH]0, was around 2×1011 molecule cm−3.
Method	The rate of disappearance of the OH radical followed a simple exponential rate law:[OH]t = [OH]0e−k′t where k′ = ki [alcohol] + k′0ki represents the rate constants for the reaction of OH with the three alcohols.
Method	The decay rate k′ is the first-order OH disappearance rate in the presence of the alcohol and k′0 is the first-order rate constant for OH removal in absence of alcohol (attributed to the diffusion of OH radicals out of the detection zone and to their reaction with H2O2).
Method	Typically, alcohol and H2O2 concentrations were in the ranges (1.6–92)×1013 and (1–10)×1013 molecule cm−3, respectively. k′0 and k′ were in the ranges 60–140 s−1 and 200–13000 s−1, respectively.
Method	Experiments were conducted in the temperature range 241–373 K and a total pressure of (106 ± 5) Torr of helium.
Result	In all conditions, the OH decays were found to be exponential over at least three lifetimes.
Result	The high [alcohol]/[OH]0 ratios and low OH concentrations made negligible contribution from secondary reactions involving the products of reactions to the measured rate constants.
Background	The contribution of the reaction of OH with photofragments of alcohol was negligible since alcohols are not photolysed at 248 nm,10 the wavelength used to generate OH radicals.
Result	As expected, variation in the photolysis fluence (3–26 mJ cm−2) had no effect on the determined rate constants.
Conclusion	The three alcohols were purified to better than 99.5% and hence loss of OH radicals by reaction with impurities in the gas mixtures is expected to be insignificant.
Result	Fig. 2 shows examples of the plots of k′ versus the alcohol concentrations obtained at 298 K.
Result	The obtained values of k1–k3 and the experimental conditions are listed in table 2.
Result	The room temperature rate constant taken as the average of all values obtained at (298 ± 2) K are:k1 = (1.0 ± 0.1)×10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.k2 = (1.5 ± 0.1)×10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.k3 = (1.2 ± 0.1)×10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1.The quoted errors for k1–k3 include 2σ from the least-squares analysis and the systematic error (5%, due to uncertainties in measured concentrations).
Conclusion	These values are in good agreement with those obtained by the relative method.
Result	The measured values of k1–k3 shown in Table 2 are plotted in the Arrhenius form in Fig. 3.
Result	An un-weighted least squares analysis of the ln kivs. 1/T plot yields the following expressions for the temperature dependence of k1–k3 in the temperature range 241–373 K (in units of cm3 molecule−1 s−1 ):k1 = (3.1±0.9) × 10−12exp[(352±82)/T]k2 = (2.8±0.9) × 10−12exp[(503±98)/T]k3 = (2.6±0.6) × 10−12exp[(456±65)/T]Uncertainties are 2AσlnA and 2σE/R, for A and E/R, respectively.
Problem	The rate constants obtained in this work are compared with the previously reported data in Table 3.
Result	For isobutanol, the measured value of k1 at room temperature is in good agreement with that obtained by Wu et al. using the relative rate method.4
Background	These authors measured k1 relative to the rate constant of OH reactions with propane and cyclohexane and obtained (9.08±0.35) × 10−12 and (9.94±0.47) × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1, respectively.
Background	Wu et al. measured also the rate constant for the reaction of OH with 3-methyl-1-butanol using the same references, they obtained (13.8±0.5) × 10−12 and (13.7±1.1) × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 with propane and cyclohexane, respectively.
Result	Our measured value of k2 and that of Wu et al4. are in agreement with that previously reported by Saunders et al. using the discharge flow–laser induced fluorescence (DF-LIF) technique at 1 Torr total pressure and 298 K (k2 = (13.1±2.6) × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1).5
Result	For 3-methyl-2-butanol, our value of k3 at room temperature agrees with that reported earlier by Wallington et al. obtained using the flash photolysis–resonance fluorescence technique (k3 = (12.4±0.7) × 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1).6
Background	This work provides the first temperature dependence parameters for the OH reaction with 2-methyl-1-propanol, 3-methyl 1-butanol and 3-methyl 2-butanol.
Result	The results show a negative temperature dependence for k1, k2 and k3 similarly to other alcohols for which temperature dependence data are available such as n-propanol, i-propanol and n-butanol.8
Problem	The present rate constant values k1–k3 can be compared with those calculated from the structure–activity relationship (SAR) of Atkinson based on group reactivity using the revised substituent factors F(–OH) = 2.9 and F(–CH2OH) = F(CHOH) = F(COH) = 2..611,12
Method	To calculate k1–k3 we used also the following parameters as defined by Kwok and Atkinson: F(–CH3) = 1, F(–CH2–) = F(CH–) = F(C) = 1.23, kprim = 0.136, ksec = 0.934, ktert = 1.94 and kOH = 0.14 (k are in units of 10−12 cm3 molecule−1 s−1) where F(–CH3), F(–CH2–), F(CH–), and F(C) are the substituent factors and kprim, ksec, ktert and kOH represent the rate constants for the H-atom abstraction from –CH3, –CH2–, CH–, and –OH, respectively.11
Result	The calculated k1–k3 values compared to the experimental ones (in brackets) are k1 = 0.89 (0.96) ; k2 = 0.92 (1.45) and k3 = 1.28 (1.23) (units of 10−11 cm3 molecule−1 s−1).
Result	While the experimental values of k1 and k3 are in good agreement with the calculated ones, that of k2 is a factor of 1.6 higher than that calculated using the SAR.
Background	It has to be noticed that this kind of discrepancy between the experimental and calculated rate constants values for the reaction of OH with hydroxyl-containing organic compounds has already been mentioned earlier.12,13
Result	The measured k2 value supports the statement of Bethel et al. indicating that accurate estimation of OH radical rate constants for all hydroxyl-containing compounds (to within better than a factor of two) does not appear possible using the general approach of the SAR developed by Atkinson.12
Conclusion	One of the possible reasons for this discrepancy is that the SAR of Atkinson considers only effects of the OH substituent on H-atom abstraction at the α- and the β- positions for hydroxyl-containing compounds while the available data shows that the oxygenated functional groups have long-range effects with respect to H-atom abstraction at sites remote from the substituent groups.3
Background	This long-range effect indicates an alternative pathway to the direct concerted hydrogen abstraction process such as the formation of a hydrogen-bonded complex in which, first, a hydrogen bond is formed between the H atom of the OH radical and the O atom of the oxygenated compound then a second hydrogen bond is formed between the O atom of the OH radical and a H atom in the hydrocarbon chain, resulting in intermolecular H-atom transfer via a cyclic transition state.3,14
Background	In all cases, the resulting reaction is an abstraction of a hydrogen atom from the oxygenated substrate.
Result	At room temperature, reaction of OH radicals with alcohols proceeds mainly by an H-atom abstraction process from the C–H bonds of the CH3–, –CH2- and CH– groups with a minor contribution of the H-atom abstraction from the -OH group.2,15–20
Background	Product distribution studies on the reaction of OH radicals with long chain linear alcohols in the presence of NOx in air have shown that H-atom abstraction from different positions (α, β, or γ) to the –OH group makes a significant contribution to the total reaction.2,11–16
Background	Under atmospheric conditions, the resulting hydroxy alkyl radicals react with oxygen.
Background	The α-hydroxy alkyl radicals formed through H-atom abstraction from the CHx group bonded to OH react solely with O2 to lead to carbonyls:2,20RR′CHOH + OH → RR′C˙OH + H2ORR′C˙OH + O2 → RR′C(O) + HO2The other hydroxy alkyl radicals (β, γ, etc.) react with O2 and NO to lead to different alkoxy hydroxy radicals which then react with O2 or decompose.
Background	In addition, recent mechanistic studies have suggested that isomerization of this type of intermediate oxy radicals may also be important in the oxidation of long chain alcohols, through a six-membered transition state, leading to the formation of hydroxyketones and hydroxyaldehydes.16–19
Background	In the gas phase, the primary degradation step of alcohols in the troposphere is reaction with OH radicals since other processes such as reactions with O3 and NO3, and photolysis are of minor importance.2,3
Background	The measured OH reaction rate constants (k) along with a typical OH concentration of [OH] = 2 × 106 molecule cm−3,21 can be used to estimate the tropospheric lifetimes (τ = 1/k[OH]) of the studied alcohols.
Result	The derived lifetimes are around 10 h for the three alcohols which indicate that these compounds are quickly removed from the atmosphere and give rise to other stable products that have longer lifetimes such as acetone.

Problem	Stabilization of an excess electron on uracil by water. Ab initio study
Result	Experiments performed on the uracil anion in the gaseous phase indicated that in this system the excess electron is dipole-bound.
Result	The experiments, however, also indicated that water solvation changes the character of the anion from dipole-bound to covalent.
Problem	In this work we have used ab initio theoretical calculations to investigate the stabilization effect that the attachment of one or two water molecules has on the electron attached to uracil.
Result	The calculations concern both dipole-bound and covalently-bound electrons and reveal rich configurational isomerism of the complex of the uracil anion with H2O molecules.
Background	The systems differ in terms of the structure of the solvation cluster formed around the excess electron.
Background	The existence of the dipole-bound anion of uracil was first predicted theoretically in our group1 and subsequently detected in gas phase experiments by the groups of Schermann2 and Bowen.3
Background	Subsequent experiments concerning anion formation of hydrated molecules of nucleic acid bases4 showed that hydration changes the nature of the complex with an excess electron anion and converts the very weakly-dipole-bound uracil anion to a more stable conventional covalent anion.
Method	The photoelectron spectroscopy (PES) showed very different spectral signatures of the two anions.
Background	While for the former a sharp narrow peak at 93 ± 7 meV was observed, the latter produced a broad feature characteristic to a covalent anion.4
Background	The broad feature did not show any vibrational structure and was noticeably shifted towards higher electron binding energies than the feature corresponding to the dipole-bound anion of the monomer.
Background	The stabilization of an excess electron attached to a closed-shell system by solvating the anion with polar molecules is an effect that can be easily understood based on the analysis of the electrostatic interactions occurring between the excess electron and the solvating systems.
Background	The transformation of a dipole-bound anion to a covalent anion upon solvation, however, may also involve, apart from the stabilization of the excess electron by the direct interaction with solvating systems, an additional effect resulting from the structural conformation of the solvated covalent anion being more stable than the conformation of the solvated dipole-bound anion.
Background	Our previous calculations of the covalent electron attachment to uracil indicated that such an attachment causes a puckering distortion of the uracil ring.
Background	If solvation stabilizes the puckered uracil structure more than the planar structure of the uracil dipole-bound anion, the covalent anion may become more stable.
Background	The additional stabilization due to solvation may also result from a stronger interaction of the solvent with the more localized covalently-attached excess electron than with the much more diffused dipole-bound electron.
Problem	In this work, we study the solvation of the excess electron in uracil anion by one and two water molecules.
Method	We only consider structures where at least one water molecule is in direct contact with the electron.
Background	For the [uracil]−·water complex, we have already studied one such configuration where the dipole-bound excess electron of uracil was localized between the uracil molecule and the water molecule.5
Background	We showed that such a configuration is stable, the presence of water stabilizes the dipole-bound excess electron and makes it more localized.
Problem	In the present work, we study the stabilization of an excess electron covalently attached to a uracil molecule by a water molecule.
Problem	We also consider the stabilization effects on a dipole-bound and a covalently-bound excess electron in the uracil anion by two water molecules.
Background	Trapping excess electrons in molecules and clusters either by fields of dipoles, higher multipoles or in covalent states, is a phenomenon with relevance to fundamental properties of molecular systems.
Background	An electron trapped in a localized bound state of the system may significantly affect its chemical and physical properties.6
Background	It is also interesting to investigate structures of possible molecular electron traps formed by molecular complexes.
Background	For example, electron trapping is relevant to molecular charge conductivity and charge localization in such systems as DNA and other biopolymers.
Problem	In this work, we consider enhancement of the uracil ability to bind an excess electron resulting from direct interaction of the electron with water molecules.
Conclusion	In particular, the calculations performed here show a rich conformational topology of the uracil·(H2O)2·e system and describe the magnitude of the electron stabilization effects resulting from the solvation.
Method	All the calculations in this work have been performed using the Gaussian98 program package.7
Method	The spin-restricted and spin-unrestricted Hartree–Fock (RHF and UHF) methods were used for neutral systems and anions, respectively.
Method	For all systems, the structure optimizations have been performed using the second-order Møller–Plesset perturbation theory (MP2).
Background	All structures reported in this work are available via e-mail from the corresponding author upon request.
Problem	In the first series of calculations we considered stabilization of a covalent uracil anion by a water molecule.
Method	We only searched for a structure where water was directly interacting with its hydrogens with the excess electron.
Method	Thus, the structure optimization of the system performed at the UMP2/aug-cc-pvdz level of theory was initiated with a puckered structure of uracil with a water molecule suspended above the uracil ring.
Result	This calculation converged to a structure shown in Fig. 1.
Result	In the figure we also show the UHF orbital occupied by the excess electron in this system.
Result	One can notice that, as expected, the excess electron is covalently attached to uracil in a π-state and the water molecule directly interacts with the electron and does not form hydrogen bonds with the uracil molecule.
Background	These features differentiate the structure found here from the structure of the uracil·H2O anion described by Dolgounitcheva et al.8
Background	In their structure the water molecule had an in-plane hydrogen bond to one of the oxygens in uracil and its contact with the π excess electron was reduced.
Method	Next, the electron binding energy in the anion was determined with respect to the neutral complex with the same geometry as the uracil·H2O anion (the vertical electron detachment energy, VDE) and with respect to the equilibrium geometry of the neutral complex obtained in the MP2/aug-cc-pvdz optimization (the adiabatic electron detachment energy, ADE).
Result	This optimization was initiated with the geometry of the anion and the optimized H-bonded structure of the uracil·H2O complex is shown in Fig. 2.
Method	The calculations of the VDE and ADE were performed at the MP2/aug-cc-pvdz//MP2/aug-cc-pvdz, MP2/aug-cc-pvtz//MP2/aug-cc-pvdz (except for VDE), and MP4/6-31++G**//MP2/aug-cc-pvdz levels of theory and the results are shown in Table 1.
Problem	This was performed to determine how these quantities change when the basis set is increased and when the level of theory is enhanced.
Result	As one can see from the results, the VDE values are all positive and they increase slightly in going from the 6-31++G** basis to the aug-cc-pvdz basis.
Result	Moving from the MP2 to the MP4 level of theory has very little effect on VDE and ADE.
Result	The ADE values are all negative indicating that the covalent anion is a metastable system, less stable than the neutral complex.
Result	Based on the MP2 energies obtained with the different basis sets, which seems to be converging to a value around −0.2 eV and based on the very small reduction of ADE due to inclusion of higher order effects of 0.04 eV, it is unlikely that the anion can become more stable than the neutral system.
Background	There are a number of ways an excess electron attached to a uracil molecule can interact with two H2O molecules.
Background	Both the dipole-bound σ excess electron and the covalently attached π-electron have to be considered as possible targets of hydration since in both cases the stabilization effect of hydration should render the excess electrons more strongly attached to the uracil moiety.
Background	One can envision the following configurations of the two H2O molecules interacting with the dipole-bound excess electron of the uracil anion: a configuration where both waters point the positive ends of their dipoles at the electron; a configuration where an H2O dimer points its dipole at the excess electron; a configuration where the excess electron is dipole-bound to the complex of uracil with a water molecule and is solvated by the other water; and a configuration where an H2O dimer is H-bonded to uracil and at the same time solvates the dipole-bound electron of uracil.
Background	An electron covalently attached to a uracil molecule in a π-state can be hydrated by two water molecules in the following ways: two waters can approach uracil perpendicularly to its ring, one on each side of the ring; two waters can independently approach the excess electron from one side of the ring; a water dimer can approach the electron perpendicularly to the uracil ring.
Background	There are, perhaps, some other possibilities.
Problem	In the first series of calculations we have explored the topology of the uracil·(H2O)2·e anion by performing geometry optimizations of the system and initiating them with different initial geometries of the complex reflecting the structural isomerism described above.
Method	The optimizations for the anions with two waters solvating the dipole-bound excess electron of uracil were performed at the UMP2 level of theory with the 6-31++G** basis set augmented with additional diffuse orbitals placed at the hydrogen of uracil located the closest to the positive pole of the uracil dipole.
Method	The additional diffuse orbitals included six gaussian sp-shells with exponents 0.01, 0.002, 0.0004, 0.00008, 0.000016, and 0.0000032 and a p-subshell with the exponent 0.036.
Background	In our previous studies we have determined that this set of additional orbitals should be sufficient to describe the ground states of the dipole-bound excess electron in systems with dipole moments similar to the dipole moments of the complexes considered in the present work.9
Background	By including gaussians with very small exponents in the basis we allowed the excess electron to escape from the system, if such a process would lower the system's total energy.
Background	Thus, the possibility that the excess electron stays confined to the system due to an overly confining orbital basis and not due to higher stability of the anion than the neutral cluster is eliminated.
Method	The augmented 6-31++G** basis will be called 6-31++G**X in the discussion that follows.
Method	The geometry optimizations of the hydrated covalent uracil anion with the excess electron occupying a π state was first performed at the UMP2/6-31++G** level of theory and then the structures were refined with the use of the UMP2/aug-cc-pvdz level.
Result	The geometry optimizations produced five different uracil·(H2O)2·e structures (A, B, C, D, and E) corresponding to minima on the potential energy surface of the anion.
Result	The structures are shown in Fig. 3.
Method	In Fig. 4 we show the orbitals occupied by the excess electrons in these systems and in Table 2 we present their total UMP2 energies and their vertical electron detachment energies (VDE) calculated by subtracting the energy of the neutral cluster determined at the geometry of the anion (at the MP2/6-31++G**X level for A and B, and at the MP2/aug-cc-pvdz level for C, D, and E) from the anion energy.
Result	The calculated VDEs of 0.45 eV for A and 0.43 eV for B indicate that the hydration stabilizes the excess electrons in these systems.
Result	By examining the orbitals of the first two anions one can notice that for both systems we have the case of the two H-bonded water molecules solvating the uracil dipole-bound electron.
Result	The difference in the systems, which is reflected in the total energy for A being slightly higher than for B, is a hydrogen bond between the uracil and the water dimer that exists in B, but is not present in A.
Result	Anions C–E are different from anions A and B. Here the excess electron occupies a π-orbital of uracil and is solvated by waters approaching the uracil from axial directions.
Background	As mentioned before,10 in the covalent anion of uracil its ring is noticeably puckered.
Result	This puckering does not disappear upon hydration which is apparent in the structures of the C–E anions shown in Fig. 3.
Result	In anion C, the two H2O molecules are positioned on opposite sides of the uracil ring and in anions D and E they are located on the same side.
Result	In all three configurations the ring puckering is enforced and the stabilization of the excess electron in the π-state is enhanced.
Result	For all three anions with a covalently attached excess electron, the VDE values are much larger than for anions A and B. They are 1.21 eV for anion C, 1.24 eV for anion D, and 1.18 eV for anion E. In this group anion E is slightly more stable than the other two.
Result	There are some common structural features in anions C, D, and E. In all three systems, one of the water molecules is positioned exactly above the uracil ring with one of its hydrogens pointing at N3 and the other pointing at C6.
Result	The position of the second water molecule is what differentiates the three structures; in C the second water is located on the other side of the ring with respect to the first water and in D and E the second water is H-bonded to the first one.
Result	However, in all three anions, one of the hydrogens of the second water molecule always points at one of the uracil oxygen atoms and it is involved in a H-bond interaction with that atom.
Result	Thus, in anions D and E, a cyclic structure is formed involving the water molecule linked with its hydrogens to the π-attached uracil excess electron, and the second water molecule which forms a bridge between the first water and an oxygen atom of uracil.
Problem	Finally, in the last series of calculations, geometry optimizations were performed for the neutral uracil·(H2O)2 cluster.
Background	This system has been considered in a number of works including, for example, recent studies by van Mourik11 and Gadre et al.12
Background	Since the optimizations of the uracil·(H2O)2 cluster in the present calculations were only initiated with the geometries of the A–E anions, the equilibrium structures found do not describe the complete topology of the uracil·(H2O)2 potential energy surface.
Method	The “A,B”–initiated optimizations carried out at the MP2/6-31++G**X level converged to a single structure shown in Fig. 5 (structure A).
Result	This appears to be the global minimum on the uracil·(H2O)2 potential energy surface.11
Method	The optimizations initiated with the geometries of anions C, D and E and carried out at the MP2/aug-cc-pvdz level converged to structures B, C and D, respectively.
Result	In A, the two H2O molecules and the uracil molecule form a cyclic hydrogen-bonded structure with three H-bonds.
Result	In B, the two waters are separated and are H-bonded to uracil at opposite sides.
Result	In C, the waters form a dimer which is H-bonded to uracil and only one water molecule is involved in this bond.
Result	In D, the waters also form a dimer which is positioned above the uracil ring and interacts with π-electrons of the uracil.
Result	The comparison of the total energy of the A uracil·(H2O)2 neutral cluster provided in Table 2 with the energies of anions A and B shows that the neutral system is more stable than any of the two anions by 0.49 and 0.30 eV, respectively.
Result	Also, the energy of anion C is higher than the energy of the B uracil·(H2O)2 cluster by 0.10 eV.
Result	However, the relative stability order is reversed for anions D and E. These systems are more stable than the neutral uracil·(H2O)2 clusters with the equilibrium geometries obtained in the optimizations initiated with the geometries of the two anions.
Conclusion	Since the structures of anions A and B and the structure of the neutral cluster are dissimilar, the relative stability determination as the difference of the total energies may be subject to the basis set superposition error (BSSE).
Problem	The same effect, however, probably smaller, may also occur for anions C, D, and E. To verify this point a series of calculations were carried out to estimate the magnitude of this error in the determination of the ADE energy for anion A where dipole-bound uracil electron is solvated and for anion C where a covalently-attached excess electron of uracil is subject to solvation.
Background	Two series of three calculations were undertaken for each of the two systems.
Method	In the first series we considered an isolated uracil molecule and each of the two waters and the calculations were undertaken in the basis set of the whole anion and in the second series the calculations for the three systems were repeated in the basis set of each individual molecule.
Method	For calculations pertaining to anion A we used the MP2/6-31++G**X level of theory and for those pertaining to anion C we used the MP2/aug-cc-pvdz level.
Method	The difference of the energies obtained in this way for each of the three systems (i.e. uracil and two waters) provided an estimation of how much each system is stabilized by calculating it in the basis set of the cluster vs. calculating it in its own basis.
Method	The total stabilization effect was obtained by summing up the contributions obtained for the three systems.
Method	A similar series of calculations was also performed for the equilibrium geometries of the A and B neutral uracil·(H2O)2 clusters and the basis-set stabilization effect determined for these systems was subtracted from the corresponding stabilization energies obtained for anions A and C. In this way, the corrections that need to be added to the ADE values of anions A and C to approximately compensate for the BSSEs were determined.
Background	In the above approach we assumed that the basis set effect does not change much in moving from the anion to the neutral system and, thus all the above calculations could be performed for the neutral forms of the molecules forming anions A and C.
Problem	Since in the neutral equilibrium uracil·(H2O)2A cluster the three molecules are closer together than in anion A, we anticipated a larger basis-set related stabilization effect for the former than for the latter system.
Result	This was indeed confirmed by the calculations which yielded a value of 0.14 eV for the difference of the two basis-set stabilization effects in favour of the neutral cluster (i.e. the neutral cluster was more stabilized than the anion by the molecules forming the cluster using the basis functions of the partner molecules to lower their energies).
Result	Thus, in order to correct the ADE for anion A the value 0.14 eV should be added to the value −0.49 eV obtained without the BSSE correction.
Result	Although this changes the ADE somewhat, it still remains negative indicating metastability of the anion with respect to the neutral cluster.
Problem	For anion C one can expect that the basis set effect should also reduce the magnitude of the ADE but to a much lesser degree than for anion A because the intermolecular distances in C and its corresponding neutral cluster (B) are not as different as they are in A and its neutral counterpart (A).
Result	Again the calculations confirmed the anticipated trend and gave the value of only 0.02 eV for the basis-set related stabilization effect in this case.
Result	This value should be added to the value −0.10 eV obtained without the BSSE correction.
Result	Again in this case the correction does not reverse the stability order of the anion and the neutral cluster.
Background	The calculations performed in this work describe an interesting topology of the configurational space of the anion consisting of a uracil molecule and one and two H2O molecules.
Background	We have only considered structures where either one or both waters are in direct contact with the excess electron attached to the uracil, and for the anion involving a single water molecule we only considered a structure with a covalently attached electron in a π-state because the other isomers of this system had been studied before.5
Result	In all the considered systems the interaction of the H2O molecules with the dipole-bound or covalently-bound excess electron significantly enhances the bonding of the electron.
Result	Also, the state of the excess electron becomes more localized.
Background	The uracil·(H2O)2 system is an interesting model of an electron trap formed by clusters of polar molecules.
Conclusion	It is evident that an excess electron attached to a molecule can be solvated through direct contact with polar molecules of the solvent.
Conclusion	The solvation cluster formed around the electron can accommodate more than one molecule and may have different configurations which, in addition to the direct links of the systems forming the cluster to the electron, may also involve inter-system links.
Result	Most of the anions studied in in this work, though quite stable with respect to removal of the excess electron without geometry relaxation, are metastable with respect to the neutral clusters at their equilibrium geometries.
Result	Only two uracil·(H2O)2 anions (anions D and E) are both “vertically” and “adiabatically” stable.
Conclusion	Here the adiabatic stability corresponds to the energy of the anion being lower than the energy of the neutral complex with the equilibrium structure obtained in the geometry optimization initiated with the geometry of the anion (not with regard to the lowest energy structure).
Conclusion	This is the first time such anions have been predicted for the uracil·(H2O)2 system using ab initio calculations.
Conclusion	The hydrated uracil·H2O·e and uracil·(H2O)2·e systems described in the calculations performed in this work may be the covalent anions of uracil·water clusters observed in the experiments.4
Background	We hope the present calculations will inspire further experimental attempts to study the configurational isomerism of anions of hydrated uracil in the gas phase.

Problem	Pressure dependence of the reaction H + O2 (+Ar) → HO2 (+Ar) in the range 1–900 bar and 300–700 K
Problem	The reaction H + O2 (+Ar) → HO2 (+Ar) was studied in a high pressure flow cell in the bath gas argon at pressures between 1 and 900 bar and temperatures between 300 and 700 K. H atoms were generated by laser flash photolysis of NH3 at 193.3 nm, HO2 radicals were monitored by light absorption at 230 nm.
Result	The results are consistent with experimental low pressure rate constants k0 = [Ar] 2.5 × 10−32(T/300 K)−1.3 cm6 molecule−2 s−1 and theoretical high pressure rate constants k∞ = 9.5 × 10−11(T/300 K)+0.44 cm3 molecule−1 s−1 from the literature.
Result	The intermediate falloff curve was found to be best represented by k/k∞ = [x/(1 + x)]Fcent1/(1+(a+logx)2/(N ± ΔN)2) with x = k0/k∞, a ≈ 0.3, N ≈ 1.05, ΔN ≈ 0.1 (+ΔN for (a + log x) < 0 and −ΔN for (a + log x) > 0), and Fcent(Ar) ≈ 0.5 independent of the temperature.
Conclusion	A comparison with literature data between 300 and 1200 K does not confirm major deviations from third order kinetics in earlier medium pressure experiments.
Background	It is well known that the chain-terminating reaction H + O2 (+M) → HO2 (+M) is of central importance in the oxidation of hydrogen-containing molecules.
Background	Its rate at low pressures has been measured repeatedly1 since about 19452 and the uncertainty of the third order low pressure rate constant k0 today is estimated to be about ±25%.
Background	Investigations of a transition to the high pressure range of the reaction have been made only rarely.
Background	In experiments at 300 K up to pressures of 200 bar of the bath gas Ar the pseudo-second order rate constant k was found to fall about a factor of 10 below the extrapolated k0.3
Background	Studies of the H2–O2–NOx reaction in Ar between 800 and 900 K and at pressures of 1–14 bar could not detect substantial deviations from third order.4
Method	More recent shock tube measurements5,6 at Ar-pressures up to 110 bar and temperatures around 1300 K realized marked deviations from the third order low pressure limit.
Background	These experiments, however, were disputed7 on the basis of statistical adiabatic channel/classical trajectory (SACM/CT) predictions8 of the high pressure rate constant k∞ combined with calculations of k([M]) in the falloff range of the reaction.9
Background	The pressure dependence of the reaction may appear to be of only limited interest for normal combustion since deviations from third order occur only at comparably high pressures.
Background	However, because of the large importance of the reaction in combustion, even modest deviations may become relevant when precise rate constants are required.
Background	This is particularly true when the bath gas is a very efficient collider such as water.6
Background	There is considerable interest in the high pressure properties of the reaction in the field of supercritical water oxidation where temperatures are of the order of 800–1000 K and water pressures are around 250 bar.10–12
Problem	In order to decide the above mentioned dispute6,7 and to provide data for the construction of precise high temperature falloff curves, we have designed a new high pressure flow cell and investigated the reaction at pressures of the bath gas argon up to 900 bar and over the temperature range 300–700 K. These experiments now allow us to characterize the pressure dependence of the reaction up to temperatures such as they are of interest for combustion and supercritical water oxidation applications.
Method	Our high pressure flow cell was made from highly heat resistent stainless steel (Inconel alloy 718 from Special Metals Co.).
Method	The internal diameter of the cylindrical cell was 22 mm and its optical pathlength was 100 mm.
Method	The cell was closed with quartz windows of 20 mm thickness at both ends.
Method	Reaction mixtures were slowly flowing through the cell in such a way that the complete volume was exchanged between individual runs of the experiments.
Method	The cell could be heated up to 900 K at pressures up to 1000 bar, the temperatures in the cell were controlled by thermocouples.
Method	The reaction mixtures were preheated before flowing through the cell; gas temperatures in the cell were found to be constant within about 2%.
Method	Reaction mixtures consisting of 10−4–1% of O2, 0.1–100 ppm of NH3 and the bath gas Ar (99.9999%) were prepared in storage vessels and compressed by an oil-free membrane compressor.
Method	H atoms were produced by laser flash photolysis of NH3 using an ArF excimer laser at 193 nm.
Method	HO2 radicals were monitored by light absorption at 230 nm using a high pressure Hg–Xe arc lamp as light source.
Method	Typically about 1000 runs were averaged.
Result	Rise times of the HO2 signals of the order of 1 μs and decay times of the order of 15 μs were observed, see Fig. 1.
Result	The rise of the HO2 signal was almost entirely dominated by the reaction H + O2 → HO2 and it was only marginally influenced by secondary reactions which were modelled by a complete mechanism such as characterized by the data given in .ref. 1
Result	The HO2 profile of Fig. 1 documents the quality of the signal and demonstrates the different time scales of the rise of the HO2 concentration and its decrease due to loss processes.
Result	The pseudo-first-order rate constants for HO2 formation were strictly proportional to the concentration of O2.
Background	More details of our experimental technique, the modelled mechanism and results for other bath gases such as helium and nitrogen will be described in a later publication.13
Background	At this stage we only report the results obtained in argon because a comparison with the high pressure measurements from refs. 3–6 can be made for this bath gas.
Result	Without tabulating the individual measured points in this communication, Fig. 2 summarizes our results in a doubly reduced falloff plot. k/k∞ is shown as a function of k0/k∞, employing the recommended experimental low pressure rate constant k0 = [Ar]2.5 × 10−32(T/300 K)−1.3 cm6 molecule−2 s−1from the evaluation in ref. 1, and the theoretical high pressure rate constant k∞ = 9.5 × 10−11(T/300 K)+0.44 cm3 molecule−1 s−1from .ref. 8
Background	The latter was calculated with an ab initio potential energy surface of HO2 and employing an SACM/CT approach.
Result	The results of this treatment in refs. 14–16 were compared with calculations made on the DMBE IV potential energy surface17 and the expression for k∞ given in eqn. (3) was confirmed.
Result	Fig. 2 indicates that a common reduced falloff plot can represent all data from 300 to 700 K. We found that the conventional18 symmetric falloff expression with x = k0/k∞ and N ≈ 0.75 − log Fcent did only provide a fair fit of the data from Fig. 2.
Result	Instead an asymmetric falloff expression9,19produced better agreement with the data and with the modelled falloff curves.9
Result	This fit is included in Fig. 2 with the parameters a ≈ 0.3, N ≈ 0.75 − log Fcent ≈ 1.05, ΔN ≈ 0.1 (+ΔN for (a + log x) < 0 and −ΔN for (a + log x) > 0).
Result	The center broadening factor Fcent(Ar) ≈ 0.5 as well as the parameters a and ΔN were found to be essentially independent of the temperature.
Method	Eqns. (2), (3), and (5) serve for the construction of full sets of falloff curves such as shown in Fig. 3.
Result	The agreement between the present results and the given expression, of course, is the result of fixing the fit parameters.
Result	One realizes that the experiments from ref. 4 correspond practically to the low pressure limit.
Background	The experiments from refs. 5 and 6, on the other hand, are found to be somewhat further into the transition range between k0 and k∞.
Result	However, in agreement with the conclusions from ref. 6, one finds that the highest points from ref. 6 for some unknown technical reason are probably too low.
Result	One has to realize that the precision of the shock wave experiments was not good enough to provide precise information on the shape of the falloff curve such as this was possible in the present work.
Background	Nevertheless, it cannot be ruled out that complications, which were not considered in the theoretical modelling of ref. 9, at high temperatures lead to additional broadenings of the falloff curves.
Conclusion	Such complications, e.g., may arise from nonstatistical lifetime distributions of HO2* such as suggested for H2O2* in .ref. 20
Conclusion	However, unless such effects are clearly proven to exist, the falloff curves derived in the present work should be used in all practical applications.
Conclusion	The present experiments have provided strong experimental support for the previously modelled7–9 falloff curves of reaction (1) over wide ranges of temperatures and pressures.
Conclusion	After accounting for different values of k0 in different bath gases,1 eqns. (2), (3), and (5) will provide an adequate basis for representing k in the fields of high pressure combustion and supercritical water oxidation.

Method	Sequential DNA hybridisation assays by fast micromixing
Problem	The prospects of performing DNA hybridisation assays in a novel sequential scheme are explored in this article.
Problem	It is based on recording the kinetics of hybridisation on a microfluidic device measuring only 10 by 5 mm.
Problem	It contains a split channel system for fast mixing and a subsequent meandering channel to observe the evolution of the mixture by optical means.
Problem	The problems of diffusion limitations in the laminar flow regime are overcome by reducing the average diffusion distance to a few micrometers only.
Method	DNA oligomers (20-mers) of different sequences were injected on the chip for mixing.
Method	The detection of hybridisation was based on the fluorescence of DNA-intercalating dyes.
Method	Two modes of operation were investigated.
Method	First, the samples were injected into the micromixing device at a high flow rate of 40 µl min−1.
Method	When the sample passed through the actual micromixing unit, the flow rate was reduced to allow for measurement of fluorescence levels at various steady-state reaction times in the range of 2–15 s, as defined by the channel geometry.
Result	Using this continuous flow approach, photobleaching of fluorophores could be avoided.
Result	In a buffer containing 0.2 M NaCl, 2 base-pair mismatches could routinely be detected within 5–20 s.
Result	Single base-pair mismatches were successfully identified under low salt conditions.
Method	In the second mode, the flow was completely stopped and the evolution of the total fluorescence signal influenced by the hybridisation of oligomers and photobleaching was observed.
Result	Whereas the sequence-dependent effects remained unchanged, the assay times between the mixing of two oligomers and clear identification of their hybridisation properties could be reduced down to a maximum of 5–7 s, in some cases even below 1 s.
Background	DNA hybridisation reactions are at the core of biological and medical analysis.
Background	Performed in vast numbers, one of the most valuable platforms are DNA microarrays where probe oligomer sequences representing genes of interest are immobilised and incubated with a mixture of unknown target DNA.
Method	Fluorescent labelling techniques are predominantly used to identify the sites where probe and target sequences match.
Method	The performance of DNA microarrays is impressive as integration with microsystem technology progresses to increase the number of probe oligomer per unit area.1,2
Method	Thereby, the information density is increased considerably and enables large-scale genomic analysis such as gene expression profiling of whole organisms.3–5
Method	Although it seems that many application needs in industrial research and high-throughput screening can be satisfied with microarrays, there is an on-going interest in alternative DNA hybridisation technology, e.g. hybridisation-based sensors that depend on other sensing devices like fiber optics,6 surface plasmon resonance sensors7 or acoustic wave sensors.8
Method	Especially attractive solutions were presented particle-based probe oligomer immobilisation schemes.9,10
Method	Yamashita et al. proposed a microfluidic system based totally on laminar flow, where the DNA hybridisation occurs at the interface between the streams.
Method	By tailoring the geometry of channel bends on their chip, only the newly formed and fluorescence-labelled DNA duplexes migrate into the bulk region of the second laminar stream for detection.11
Method	Another interesting contribution from Tamiya's group suggested the use of silicon micromachining to create platelet-like particles for immobilisation whose shape characteristics alone could code for different functionalisation and still be easily identifiable in mixtures.12,13
Method	However, there is a distinct lack of scale-up potential towards high-throughput applications in most of these approaches.
Method	In some cases, the beads coated with probes could be sorted into a silicon frame and became individually addressable.14
Method	We wish to present a different approach with potential for high-throughput application by combining purely solution-based DNA hybridisation reactions with the use of a microfluidic system.15,16
Method	This device overcomes the mixing problem that is inherent to most microfluidic systems which work in the laminar flow regime and is based on the fine distribution of two laminar inlet flows (Fig. 1).
Method	DNA hybridisation assays are performed in series by injecting the sample solutions one after the other and mix them rapidly on the chip.
Result	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) are detectable.
Background	If such a scheme is to be used for a large number of analyses in sequence, the single assay has to be performed within a short time to become comparable to the enormous multiplexing performance of microarray technology.
Result	The prospect of decreasing the time of one assay to the order of 1 s is presented.
Method	Potentially, this technology could allow for many thousand assays within just a few hours.
Method	By using solution-based DNA chemistry,17,18 the need for immobilisation schemes is eliminated.
Background	Due to restrictions of molecular diffusion near surfaces, the kinetics of heterogeneous hybridisation assays are slower, as characterised in literature.19–22
Background	The detection of DNA hybridisation is based on the fluorescent dye PicoGreen that selectively enhances its fluorescence upon binding to double-stranded DNA (dsDNA).
Background	Typically, such intercalating reagents are used for DNA quantification23–27.
Method	The setup consisted of a Leica DM IL inverted microscope with fluorescence detection equipment as depicted in Fig. 1c.
Method	The glass-silicon-glass sandwiched micromixing device was secured in a custom-made aluminium holder by pressing PEEK capillaries and silicone ferrules (Upchurch Scientific, Eugene, Oregon, USA) into the access holes of the microchip.
Method	There were two light sources installed, one a halogen lamp for bright-field imaging, the other lamp a high-performance Hg-lamp (50 W) for fluorescence excitation.
Method	Various neutral density filters could be inserted before the fluorescence filter set in order to attenuate the excitation light.
Method	Connected to the microscope was a photomultiplier tube (PMT) Cairn Integra (Cairn Research Ltd., Faversham, UK).
Method	Its preamplifier analog voltage output was connected to a National Instruments PCI DAQ card for direct digitalization of the PMT data.
Method	Liquid pumping was done using a Harvard PhD 2000 syringe pump equipped to hold up to two Hamilton syringes.
Method	One input line was connected to a Rheodyne EV750-100 6-port injection valve (Rheodyne LLC, Rohnert Park, California, USA) which was equipped with a 20 µl sample loop.
Method	A video camera for capturing live and still images was installed on the top port of the PMT mirror assembly.
Method	By the use of dichroic mirrors which split the light at 600 nm, the camera remained connected in parallel to the PMT so that detection window and positions could be checked shortly before and during measurement.
Method	The detection window was defined by an adjustable rectangular aperture of 160 by 200 µm.
Method	The fluorescence light was collected at highest magnification through a 32× objective (NA = 0.4).
Method	The whole setup was computer-controlled using LabView and was placed in a cloth-clad cubicle in order to avoid stray light.
Method	A solution of 0.385 mM fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) dissolved in MeOH was used in a mixing experiment with water.
Method	The components were mixed at a total flow rate of 120 µl min−1.
Method	Gel-filtered DNA oligomers were synthesized by Eurogentech, Romsey, UK and used as received.
Method	The lyophilised DNA oligomers were reconstituted using sterile and RNAse free water.
Method	The following sequences were used for the present work, a base sequence A: 5′-GTTTATTAATGCGGCCCGCG-3′, its perfect match A′: 5′-CGCGGGCCGCATTAATAAAC-3′, as well as sequences containing increasing numbers of base pair mismatches, A-1: 5′-CGCGGGCTGCATTAATAAAC-3′, A-2: 5′-CGCGAGCCGCATTGATAAAC-3′ and A-5: 5′-CGTGAGACGCACTGATATAC-3′.
Method	Location of mismatches are indicated in bold-oblique letters.
Method	The hybridisation properties of various oligomer mixtures were also confirmed by DNA sizing on an Agilent 2100 bioanalyser.
Method	To ensure temperature stability and constant lighting conditions etc., each experiment consisted of different injections done in the same run within a few hours.
Method	PicoGreen was purchased from Molecular Probes Inc., Leiden, Netherlands.
Method	For a typical experiment, 3 ml of buffer solution containing 34.5 mg NaCl (0.2 M) and 8.9 mM tris-borate/0.2 mM EDTA at pH 8.3 were prepared and put under vacuum for degassing.
Method	To this buffer, the appropriate amount of oligomer and PicoGreen dye (typically 5 µl of PicoGreen diluted in water 1:10) was added shortly before the experiment.
Method	The first syringe connected directly to one inlet usually contained 450 µl of a 0.8–8 µM (5–50 µg ml−1) target oligomer solution, the syringe supplying the other inlet contained 450 µl pure buffer and was used as carrier stream through the Rheodyne injection valve.
Method	Probe oligomer solutions for injection were at the same concentration unless indicated otherwise.
Method	Between experiments, the chip was filled with liquid in order to avoid air bubbles forming and occasionally flushed with buffer and EtOH/MeOH or 2-propanol to keep the microchannels clean.
Method	Calibration experiments to assess the detection limit of dsDNA within a large background of ssDNA were performed.
Method	All solutions were prepared with excess oligomer to mimic the initial stages of hybridisation with the corresponding amount of unreacted oligomer.
Method	A 5 µM stock solution of dsDNA (A:A′) was diluted to 1, 2, 20, 40, 80, 160 × 10−8 M concentrations to which another equivalent of A was added to bring the total oligomer concentration in the system to a total of 8 µM (comprising dsDNA and ssDNA).
Method	This time, the solutions were injected on the microchannels through the outlet since the micromixing function was not necessary.
Method	Fluorescence levels were recorded for both stopped flow and continuous 40 µl min−1.
Result	As the results of the calibration run indicate, dsDNA concentrations of 200–400 nM could readily be detected (not shown).
Method	Where applicable in terms of comparable experimental conditions, a linear fit to this calibration was used to convert the PMT voltage scale to concentration units.
Method	The PMT data was first normalised to the measured basic fluorescence level of one oligomer/PicoGreen solution mixed 1 : 1 with buffer.
Method	The high efficiency of mixing in the laminar flow regime is brought about by splitting each of the two inlet streams into 16 smaller substreams which then are joined and recombined (Fig. 1a).
Background	Details concerning the design and microfabrication procedures of the device are given elsewhere.28
Method	Briefly, channels and through-holes were micromachined into a silicon wafer from both sides by deep reactive ion etching (DRIE) using three photolithography masks.
Method	The silicon wafer then was sandwiched by anodic bonding of a plain glass wafer at the bottom and a glass wafer featuring sand-blasted access holes on top and finally diced to yield single chips.
Method	The channel surfaces had not been functionalised in any way.
Problem	Hence, a layer of adsorbed oligomers on the open SiO2 surfaces had to be expected.
Problem	Due to the excitation light source containing significant intensity in the UV range, an irreversibly bound monomolecular layer is likely to have formed.
Result	However, due to the dynamic operation mode featuring only short interruptions of a continuous flow, the immensely larger detection volume, the DNA concentrations used and frequent flushings, no evidence of adverse effects on the fluorescence signals was found.
Method	In addition, the intense excitation light source was constantly illuminating the channel system (see positioning of aperture in Fig. 1c), thus quenching any remaining fluorescence from possible adsorbates by photobleaching.
Result	With the present system geometry, Reynold numbers of Re = 1.6 to 4.8 have been calculated for the flow rates of 40 to 120 µl min−1 of aqueous oligomer solutions used within this project.
Conclusion	In the absence of turbulence at Re < 2,000, the only transport mechanism for mixing is diffusion.
Conclusion	The splitting of flows therefore reduces the average diffusion distance to approx.
Conclusion	10 µm, see also Fig. 1b where micrographs of the stratified laminar flow pattern after mixing fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) with water are shown.
Result	A meandering channel allows for downstream observation of the flow, e.g. after 30 ms the laminar pattern has been washed out by diffusion.
Result	The splitting of flows leads to a significant decrease in mixing times down to the order of ms, since the diffusion distance x follows a root law as function of diffusion coefficient D and time t
Background	A literature overview of some diffusion properties in water for various molecules of interest are summarised in Table 1.
Background	Smaller molecules like FITC easily cover 7–8 µm within 100 ms, whereas DNA oligomers and double-stranded pieces of 20 bp length take up to approximately 1 s for the same distance.
Background	This is due to their diffusion coefficient being approx.
Background	10× smaller.
Background	It is important to note that these values may vary depending on the actual experimental conditions like buffers, pH, temperature, DNA sequence and functionalisation etc.
Background	Therefore, these literature values were used as a guideline only.
Problem	All the characteristics addressed above led to the decision to vary the flow rate in the present work by mixing probe and target oligomer quickly using a high flow rate and subsequently slowing down or stopping the flow to allow for enough time to observe the evolution of the DNA hybridisation reaction.
Method	The downstream channel volume of 480 nl would only allow for a time window of 600 ms at typical flow rate of 40 µl min−1.
Method	Therefore, these reductions of the flow-rate or stop-flow schemes were required.
Problem	Since the detection of hybridisation is based on intercalating dyes which increase the quantum yield of fluorescence upon interacting with dsDNA, the following contributions to the overall fluorescence level can be expected: (i) the fluorescence of the intercalating dye in solution without DNA interaction, (ii) interaction of the dye with ssDNA, (iii) intercalation into oligomer-dimers, (iv) intercalation into dsDNA.
Problem	Of these contributions, (i) should be negligible29 (ii) is expected to remain constant throughout the experiments, or, in the case of matching oligomers, is expected to become negligible as ssDNA is consumed by hydridisation, (iv) desirably the strongest and (iii) will have to be controlled carefully, since it may vary depending on the probe sequences of the oligomers in use.
Background	Newer intercalating dyes like PicoGreen seem to fulfil these requirements, especially since the brightness increase upon binding to dsDNA is reported to be 2 orders of magnitude.
Result	A typical experiment mixing oligomer A with A′ is depicted in Fig. 2a.
Method	At 40 µl min−1 the injection valve is switched to its inject position for 10 s, injecting approximately 3.3 µl of probe oligomer solution.
Method	Concurrently with switching the valve back to the load state, the flow is abruptly reduced to a flow rate of 2 µl min−1.
Result	After 10–20 s another steady state of the fluorescence signal is reached.
Method	For demonstration of the repeatability of this flow rate change, the flow rate is temporarily brought back to 40 µl min−1 for just a short moment (at 45 s).
Result	The signal recovers to the same steady-state level after that.
Method	The experiment is ended at 80 s by flushing the system at 40 µl min−1.
Method	Both oligomer concentrations were 2.4 µM.
Method	The observed difference in fluorescence intensity before and after the flow rate reduction step, ΔPMT, was evaluated to detect oligomers that match or, respectively, mismatch in varying degrees.
Result	The ΔPMT values of sequence-dependent experiments are shown in Fig. 2b.
Method	The same experiment as described above was performed with various mismatch combinations.
Result	Matching oligomers A/A′ and 1-mismatch A/A-1 could not be distinctly resolved.
Conclusion	This is attributed to the high NaCl concentration of 0.2 M which was initially chosen to maximise the reaction rate at fixed oligomer concentrations.
Method	The error of multiple injections was dominated by the fluctuations of the mercury-arc lamp that was used.
Result	However, if the NaCl content is reduced to 40 mM, the stringency of hybridisation is increased.
Result	Using these conditions, single base-pair mismatches A/A-1 were successfully distinguished from A/A′ at 4.8 µM oligomer concentrations (Fig. 2c).
Method	As both syringes were driven by the same pump, the mixing ratio was fixed to 1:1.
Method	However, due to individual pressure variations upon flow rate change, deviations from this 1:1 ratio had to be taken into account.
Result	Therefore, the initial response always carries some unwanted spike which was characterised by observing the effect of flow-rate change without injecting a sample.
Result	In those cases, the corresponding fluorescence response of only the change in flow rate without sample injection is also displayed.
Conclusion	The difference between the two steady-state levels is indicative of the hybridisation reaction rate.
Result	As Fig. 2c also shows, the higher concentrations used in the single base-pair mismatch experiments yields a much shorter settling time of only 5 s to reach flow equilibrium.
Result	A sharp increase in fluorescence brightness was obtained when injecting the complementary 20-mer A′ to the basic sequence A and stopping the flow.
Method	The injection time of 10 s was again chosen in order to fill the channel downstream of the mixing unit long enough to perform several stop-flow measurements.
Result	A series of three injections is shown in Fig. 3a for [A] = constant = 8 × 10−6 M and [A′] = 8 × 10−6 M, resp.
Result	4 × 10−6 M and 1.6 × 10−6 M. The curves each show the behaviour after stopping the flow 3 times and give an impression of the reproducibility.
Result	From top to bottom, the dilution of [A′] is shown.
Result	Clearly, the steady-state fluorescence level follows the dilution series quantitatively.
Background	The hybridisation kinetics of DNA oligomers can be described as a reaction following second order kinetics with a rate constant k1 of approximately 5.7 × 105 M−1s−1.18,30
Method	The time-law of dsDNA formation for equal oligomer concentrations is given by where c0 is the initial concentration of both oligomers and k1 the rate constant.
Result	Calculation of the 90% conversion value yields a value of t90 = 1.98 s.
Problem	Therefore, considering the specific conditions used in the experiments, the hybridisation should be faster than the mixing process by diffusion.
Problem	One expects to measure the response of the mixing system rather than the hybridisation kinetics themselves.
Result	As Fig. 3a confirms, the times after the stopping of flow required to reach a steady fluorescence level do not change by diluting the concentration of one oligomer.
Result	Linearisation to the root law of diffusion (1) of the time-dependent response shows that the hybridisation is indeed in the diffusion-limited regime for 20 s after which the increase in fluorescence deviates from the root law (Fig. 3b).
Conclusion	Possible explanations for this deviation are the completion of the mixing process or the onset of photobleaching as the intense excitation light is constantly focussed on the same volume element of the liquid after halting the flow.
Result	The t90 values scale linearly with concentrations.
Problem	Hence, it has to be expected that using lower concentrations will eventually lead to a kinetic limitation of the response.
Background	If this micromixing/stopped flow scheme is going to be used for genomic analysis, the dependence of the response to variations in sequence will be crucial.
Result	Examples of sequence series are given in Fig. 4.
Method	The A sequence was provided to the first inlet and the other oligomers were injected via the Rheodyne valve to the second inlet with injection times of 10 s.
Result	A′ and A-1 containing one mismatched base pair coincide, whereas the first differences become evident for the two-mismatch oligomer, A-2.
Result	In the case of A-5, the fluorescence increase is distinctly lower reflecting the thermodynamic equilibrium being shifted to the oligomer side.
Conclusion	True single-nucleotide-polymorphism (SNP) detection could again not be achieved due to the NaCl content (0.2 M).
Background	However, the same way as control probe sequences containing an additional mismatch close to the target mismatch are included in microarray applications, such an approach could equally be applied for the proposed micromixing approach.
Result	Further variations in buffer composition also lead to less ‘mismatch-tolerant’ and more stringent hybridisation conditions.
Background	High-throughput application of this scheme demands for a quick succession of assays, e.g. another assay every 1–5 s.
Background	It is not necessary to wait for the hybridisation to complete for obtaining the information whether two particular probe to target sequences match.
Background	This will constitute an optimisation problem between fast detection and the resulting sequence-related levels of confidence.
Background	Parameters to consider are the diffusion-controlled mixing or the kinetics of hybridisation and the sensitivity of detection, especially the detection of small dsDNA amounts in a large background of oligomers.
Result	A true high-speed approach is shown in Fig. 5, where multiple stops on A mixed with A′, and A mixed with A-5 are depicted.
Method	Particular to this experiment was the removal of all ND filters to have the highest excitation light intensity that the setup permitted.
Result	Photobleaching effects now become very significant and the hybridisation/intercalation process produces just enough additional fluorescence to temporarily outweigh the photobleaching.29,31
Result	Therefore, the signal obtained only increases in the case of matching oligomer sequences.
Result	In the case of mismatching sequences, A-5 to A, only a decay of fluorescence is recorded.
Conclusion	First, such a scheme could provide for a signal with less ambiguity than the previous ones shown before by exhibiting a clear increase/decrease of fluorescence brightness.
Conclusion	Second, the magnified extracts that show the onset of the signal upon halting the flow are only 1 s, clearly indicating the possibility to discriminate matching/nonmatching situations with a signal change in the range of 10% within the first second of observation.
Method	We have demonstrated an alternative approach for performing DNA hybridisation assays in sequence.
Method	The enabling tool is a microsystem of passive mixing channels with subsequent observation channel.
Result	DNA hybridisation at high concentrations was found to be diffusion-limited.
Result	Sequence dependent signals down to SNP-level were successfully recorded.
Result	A mode of operation suitable for high-throughput applications was found, where the signal shows within 1 s whether two oligomers match.
Conclusion	Whereas technological difficulties such as the periphery providing a steady stream of samples still need to be addressed, we believe this method could provide for a very flexible and versatile platform for genomic analysis.
Background	M. Heule thanks for funding, by a postdoctoral fellowship award, the Swiss National Science Foundation (SNF).
Background	Upchurch Scientific is acknowledged for providing a reference chip holder.

Problem	The liquid–liquid coexistence of binary mixtures of the room temperature ionic liquid 1-methyl-3-hexylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate with alcohols
Problem	Precise coexistence curves are reported for the liquid–liquid phase transition of binary solutions of the room temperature ionic liquid (RTIL) 1-methyl-3-hexylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate (C6mim+BF4−) in a series of alcohols (1-butanol, 1-pentanol, 2-butanol, and 2-pentanol).
Method	The phase diagrams are determined by measuring the temperature dependence of the refractive index in the two phases of samples of critical composition.
Background	The critical data of the systems are in the region predicted for the model fluid of equal-sized, charged, hard spheres in a dielectric continuum, the so-called restricted primitive model (RPM).
Conclusion	Therefore, the phase transition can be classified as essentially driven by Coulomb interactions.
Conclusion	The effective exponents βeff determined are close to the universal Ising value, where the deviations are found to be negative, when the volume fraction or the mass fraction are chosen as concentration variable.
Conclusion	The negative values of the first Wegner correction indicate non-uniform crossover from Ising to mean-field criticality.
Result	The diameter of the coexistence curves shows the non-analytic temperature dependence typical for Ising systems.
Background	Recently we have reported a survey on the location of the liquid–liquid phase transition1 in binary solutions of room temperature ionic liquids (RTIL) in water and in a series of alcohols.
Background	The RTILs considered contain a 1-methyl-3-alkylimidazolium cation (Cnmim+, n = 4, 6, 8) and the PF6− or BF4− anion.
Background	A first detailed investigation of critical properties of such systems concerned the viscosity in binary mixtures of the RTIL C6mim+BF4− with 1-pentanol.2
Background	Ising criticality with crossover to regular behaviour was observed in accordance with viscosity measurements on other solutions of low melting salts.3–5
Problem	In this work, we continue investigating critical properties of binary mixtures of RTILs with non-ionic fluids analysing coexistence curves of solutions in alcohols.
Method	While in ref. 1, separation temperatures were determined by visual inspection when cooling down homogenous mixtures, in this work, we investigate flame sealed samples of critical composition by a laser technique.
Method	We determine the refractive index of the coexisting phases and of the one-phase region as function of the temperature applying the minimum beam deflection method.
Method	This highly accurate method6–10 allows determining critical exponents, which cannot be achieved by the visual method applied in ref. 1 and in the work of other authors, who reported phase diagrams of other RTILs in alcohol solutions.11–13
Background	Coexistence curves of solutions of RTILs are of technical interest in view of applications in chemical engineering as reaction media and in separation processes.14,15
Background	Reactions have been proposed that, taking advantage of phase transitions, enable elegant separation of products, catalyst and solvent by small changes of temperature or composition.16
Background	Clearly, the knowledge of coexistence curves is essential for designing such processes.
Background	From a scientific point of view, RTILs are of interest for studies of the nature of the critical point in liquid–liquid phase transitions driven by Coulomb interactions.
Background	We recall that Ising criticality, generally observed in fluid phase transitions,30 requires short-range r−n interactions with n > 4.97 (ref. 17,18) as driving potential.
Background	Different critical behaviour is expected when long-range interactions17–20 drive the phase transition.
Background	Mean field criticality of the van der Waals (vdW) type was conjectured in the case of Coulomb forces.21
Background	First measurements of the coexistence curve and of the turbidity of the solution of triethylhexyl ammonium triethylhexyl ammonium borate (N2226+B2226−) in biphenyl ether yielded indeed vdW mean field criticality,22,23 which stimulated theoretical24,25 and experimental work.
Background	However, later experiments on this system, using samples that were tempered for some days before the measurement, did not confirm the observations of mean field criticality4,7 but reported Ising behaviour.
Background	Measurements on other Coulomb systems, e.g. solutions of tetrabutyl ammonium picrate8,26 (N4444Pic) or ethyl ammonium nitrate27–29 (EAN) in higher alcohols also yielded Ising exponents for all properties.8,10,26
Background	With the exception of the work refs. 22 and 23 all experiments3–5,7,8 and most simulations30–33 indicate that phase transitions driven by Coulomb interactions also belong to the Ising universality class.
Background	Nevertheless, this matter is still under discussion.34,35
Background	The salts investigated have a rather low melting point if compared to typical inorganic salts.
Background	The critical temperatures Tc of the solutions are near room temperature.
Background	Thus, mK-accuracy can be achieved easily.
Background	For a review, see .refs. 36–38
Background	However, all experiments remain suspect, because of the limited chemical stability of the organic salts.
Background	The so-called Pitzer salt N2226+B2226− is a notoriously unstable compound.4,7
Background	Consequently; rather different figures for Tc have been reported.
Background	Instability of Tc during the measurements may also cause erroneous conclusions.7
Background	The solutions of the picrates (NR4+Pic−) also cannot expected to be perfectly stable, because, after all, the picrates are explosives.
Background	The EAN–octanol solution decomposes already 20 K above the consolute temperature.27
Background	Therefore, it is worthwhile to investigate the critical properties of solutions of RTILs, which now are commercially available in good quality, chemically stable, and therefore well suited for accurate measurements.
Background	Corresponding states analysis of the location of the consolute point enables to distinguish phase transition that are driven by Coulomb interactions from those determined by solvophobic interactions.39
Background	We have carried out such an analysis of the location of the consolute point based on a survey of more than 200 mixtures of RTILs.1
Background	The reduced variables are defined by the restricted primitive model (RPM), a model fluid of equal sized, charged, hard spheres in a dielectric continuum.
Background	Phase transitions with reduced critical data near the RPM figures are termed Coulombic, because the phase transitions are expected to be driven by Coulomb forces.36,39
Background	The energy scale defining the reduced temperature T* is set by the Coulomb energy of the charges q± at the contact separation σ in a continuum with the dielectric constant ε.
Background	The reduced density is defined by the total number density of the ions ρ = (N+ + N−)/V and the volume σ3.
Background	Monte Carlo simulations, which are accompanied by finite-size scaling techniques, yield the critical point of the RPM at Tc* = 0.049, ρc* = 0..0830–33
Background	Binary solutions of organic salts in solvents of small ε, e.g. in higher alcohols have their consolute point in that region.
Background	In water, where the phase transition is driven by hydrophobic interactions, which are short-range, the reduced critical data (Tc* = 0.6 and ρc* =0.1) become much larger, which is in the region typical for phase transitions driven by solvophobic interactions.1,24,36,39
Background	Similar values apply for phase transitions of non-ionic systems,24 where vdW forces set the energy scale.
Background	The remarkable result in ref. 1 was a nearly linear relation between Tc* and ε of the solvents.
Background	Including water and higher alcohols, this observation suggests a continuous change from Coulomb phase transitions to such driven by solvophobic interactions with ε as the determining parameter.
Background	The nature of the critical point in ionic systems is a puzzling problem.
Background	To start with, the thermodynamic limit does not exist in systems with particles interacting by r−1 Coulomb forces.
Background	The thermodynamic limit exists only for r−n potentials with n > .317
Background	However, in ionic systems, long-range Coulomb interactions become effectively short-range40,41 because of shielding due to Debye–Hückel charge ordering, so that the thermodynamic limit exists.42
Background	Monte Carlo simulations of the RPM yield Ising critical exponents30,32,33 or, at least, are consistent with Ising values.31
Background	Ising critical behaviour is also obtained for the general primitive model, where both, size and charges of the ions may be different.43,44
Problem	However, in ionic solutions other long-range interactions may influence the criticality.
Background	Charge-induced dipole interactions and the so-called charge cavity interactions that vary as r−4 are present.45
Method	In 2.1 we will outline that in cases when long-range r−n interactions with 3 < n < 5 determine the phase transition the critical exponents will deviate from the Ising values.
Background	However, Debye–Hückel charge ordering can be expected to shield all electrostatic interactions, so that all long-range interactions, e.g. the mentioned charge-induced dipole interactions may become effectively short range.40,41
Background	Therefore, the conservative expectation is: Ising criticality with crossover to vdW mean field behaviour at larger separation from the critical point.26,46,47
Background	The crossover is determined by the Ginzburg temperature.48
Background	Theory predicts a Ginzburg temperature for Coulomb phase transitions, which is large if compared to non-ionic systems and therefore implies a non-classical Ising region that is even larger than in non-ionic systems.49,50
Background	In variance to this prediction, experiments indicate a crossover to vdW mean field criticality in a smaller temperature region above the critical temperature than in normal non-ionic systems.26
Background	Semi-empirical crossover theory allows describing the experiments,46–49 but a physical explanation is not available.
Problem	A hypothesis, which could explain the reported crossover at rather small separation from the critical point, is a scenario involving a tricritical point.
Background	A tricritical point arises, when a line of second order transitions cuts the coexistence curve at the critical consolute point.17,51
Background	Even if this condition is not exactly met, the coupling of the two fluctuations is expected to change critical properties, e.g. the shape of the coexistence curve.52
Background	In ionic fluids, order transitions between an insulating and a conducting state or between a uniform fluid and a charge ordered state53 might be thought of.
Background	Therefore, precise measurements of coexistence curves are required to judge the validity of those theoretical reasoning.
Problem	In this work, we present measurements of the coexistence curves of solutions of C6mim+BF4− in the alcohols 1-butanol, 1-pentanol, 2-butanol and 2-pentanol.
Method	In samples of critical composition we determine the refractive index in the homogeneous phase above Tc and in the two phases below Tc using the minimum beam deflection method.6
Problem	The coexistence curves are calculated from the refractive index data and compared with the results obtained by determining the separation temperatures in a set of mixtures of given concentration1.
Method	The power n of r−n potentials may be written n = d + s, where d is the dimension of the system.
Background	For s ≥ 2 − ηsr the potential is termed short range and phase transitions determined by such potential belong to the Ising universality class17,51.η is the so-called Fisher exponent, which corrects the classical Ornstein–Zernicke correlation function and assumes the value ηsr = 0.03 in (d = 3)-Ising systems.
Background	The common scenario for fluid phase transitions driven by short-range interactions is Ising criticality in the asymptotic region with crossover to vdW mean field behaviour at large separations from the critical point.48
Background	For s < 0 the thermodynamic limit does not exist.17
Background	Potentials with 0 < s < 2 − ηsr are termed long-range potentials.
Method	Theory predicts for potentials with 0 < s < d/2 the following set of critical exponents19,20ν = 1/s, η = 2 − s, γ = 1,which are termed mean field exponents.
Method	The exponents ν and γ determine the temperature dependence of correlation length ξ and susceptibility χ, respectively.
Method	The vdW mean field exponents, conventionally called mean field exponents, result from a mean field theory for fluids with particles interacting by a short-range potential.
Method	The exponents given in eqn. (2) become identical with the vdW mean field exponents for s = 2.
Background	Based on the hypothesis that thermodynamic functions are homogeneous functions, relations between the various critical exponents have been derived,17,51 which served as a guide in the development of renormalisation group theory of critical phenomena.
Method	For convenience, we give the four relations and apply them to calculate the other mean field exponents:γ = (2 − η)ν, γ = β(1 − δ), γ = 2 − α − 2β, dν = 2 − α.
Method	The last relation of eqn. (3), termed the hyperscaling relation, applies only for d ≤ 4.
Method	Therefore, d = 4 is termed critical dimension dc.
Method	The critical exponent of the specific heat is denoted by α, the exponent δ relates the field to the order parameter at critical temperature.
Method	In the context of the phase transitions of fluids, the exponent δ determines the divergence of the osmotic susceptibility χ, when, at critical temperature, the variable X of the composition approaches the critical value:χ ∼ |X − Xc|1−δ.
Background	The osmotic susceptibility can be determined by measuring the scattering intensity.
Method	The mean field exponents (eqns. (2)) satisfy the relation γ = (2 − η)ν.
Method	The other two relations determining γ and the hyperscaling relation can be used to calculate the exponents α, β and δ yieldingα = 2 − d/s, β = (d − s)/2s, δ = (d + s)/(d − s).For s = d/2 the exponents α, β, γ, and δ agree with the vdW mean field coefficients 0, 1/2, 1, 3, respectively.
Method	Only if d = 4 the exponents ν and η also agree with the vdW mean field values.
Method	However, theoretical analysis requires that for long-range interactions the critical dimension dc depends also on the power of the potential according dc = 2s.17
Method	Furthermore, the dimension d in the hyperscaling relation has to be replaced by the critical dimension.
Method	With this setting, the coefficients α, β, γ and δ agree with the vdW mean field values whenever long-range interactions drive a phase transition, while ν, η assume the vdW mean field values only for s = 2.
Background	First simulations54,55 of fluids with long range potentials 0 < s < 2 yield β/ν = 0.8 for s = 1 and d = 3.
Background	This result is between the estimates β/ν = 1 resulting from eqns. (5) and β/ν = 1/2 obtained with dc = 2, while the Ising value is β/ν = 0.515.
Method	Phase transitions in fluids that are driven by short-range interactions belong to the Ising universality class.
Method	However, the simple power laws involving the universal critical Ising exponents are valid only in the asymptotic region near the critical point.
Background	In general a crossover theory48 should be applied to analyse the date in a wide temperature region.
Method	In fluid mixtures the asymptotic power laws commonly hold in the region τ = |T − Tc|/Tc < 10−3.
Background	In the region 10−3 < τ < 10−2 corrections to scaling56,57 by power series in τ may suffice.
Method	Considering the coexistence curve, the difference ΔX of the composition in the two coexisting phases vanishes as the critical temperature Tc is approached according to the following scaling law termed Wegner expansion:|Xu − Xl| = Bτβ (1 + B1τΔ + B2τ2Δ + ⋯).
Method	Xu and Xl represent the compositions in the upper and in the lower phase, respectively.
Method	While the exponents β = 0.325 and Δ = 0.51 are universal for an Ising critical point, the amplitudes B of the coexistence curve and the amplitudes of the correction terms are specific to the system, but not independent.
Method	There are rather strict conditions on size and sign of the terms in the Wegner expansion.
Background	However, regular terms, which are not part of the Wegner expansion, may also contribute to the fits of the experimental data.47,54,55
Method	Therefore, we apply the expansion (6) just as a tool to fit the data and do not claim to get Wegner coefficients in its strict sense from the data analysis.
Method	The diameter Xm = (Xl + Xu)/2 is also a non-linear function of τ and may be represented56,57 by the seriesXm − Xc = Aτ + Cτ2β + Dτ1−α (1 + D1τΔ + …)involving the critical exponent α of the specific heat with α = 0.11.
Method	Note, that in a vdW mean field system with α = 0 and β = 1/2 the diameter becomes a linear function of τ, thus satisfying the rule of the rectilinear diameter.
Background	The temperature dependence of the diameter has been a matter of controversy for a long time.58
Background	The 2β term is commonly regarded as a spurious contribution, which occurs when a “wrong” concentration variable56,57 is chosen for the data analysis.
Background	This qualification of the 2β term, however, has been questioned recently.59
Method	Furthermore; the deviation from rectilinear diameter is often small and not observable in many cases.
Background	Therefore, it is difficult to determine uniquely the various coefficients in eqn. (7) in a numerical analysis of experimental data.
Background	On experimental grounds, many choices for the composition variable X may be used with equal validity e.g. the mole fraction x, the mass fraction w or the volume fraction φ.
Background	There is no a priory reason to choose one variable over the other.
Background	Japas and Levelt Sengers named some criteria for selecting the best variable:60 simple scaling laws should hold over the largest range, where β assumes the Ising value; the critical composition should be near 0.5 and the coexistence curve should be almost symmetrical.
Method	The asymmetry should be determined by the (1 − α) anomaly only.
Background	Therefore, in the data analysis various choices of the concentration variables may be considered.
Background	If, e.g. the coexistence curve is determined by measuring the transition temperatures in a series of samples of given composition, the mole fraction x or the mass fraction w are known and appear to be the natural choices to represent the composition.
Method	In general, any concentration variable X can be transformed into a certain desired new variable Y by a transformation61 of the formIf the mole fraction x is transformed into the mass fraction w, the parameter p becomes p = M2/M1, where M1 is the molar weight of the compound with mole fraction x.
Method	In general the parameter p may depend on temperature and composition as, e.g., in the transformation of the mole fraction x into the volume fraction φ, where p = V2/V1 is the ratio of the partial molar volumes.
Method	As an approximation to the volume fraction an ideal volume fraction φ0 may be defined, in which the excess volume is neglected and p = V20/V10 is given by the molar volumes of the pure components.
Method	The transformation eqn. (8) may also be applied to construct a symmetrical coexistence curve represented in terms of a new variable.
Method	The transformation of the mole fraction x into a variable, which fixes the critical composition to Y = 0.5 requires p = xc/(1 − xc).
Background	The thermodynamic analysis of Anisimov et al62. appears to remove the arbitrariness of the composition variable.
Background	In the Landau theory the free energy density is expanded.
Background	In this thermodynamic potential, the variable is the density and the corresponding field is the chemical potential.
Method	Therefore, in mixtures the number density (concentration) of one of the components should be chosen as variable, which is ρ1 = φ1/V10.
Method	Because in the investigated temperature range the molar volume V10 is changing very little, the volume fraction is also an appropriate concentration variable.
Method	The density is not identical with the order parameter M.
Method	The order parameter M is a linear combination of density and entropy density, where the (1 − α) term in eqn. (7) represents the entropy density2Mu,l = ±Bτβ (1 + B1τΔ + …) − Aτ − Dτ1−α.Eqns.
Method	(6) and (7) result as difference or sum of the two branches given by eqn. (9).
Background	The order parameter M is the variable in the crossover theory.47,48
Background	The application of this rather involved approach is outside the scope of this work.
Method	If the phase diagrams are determined by measurements of the refractive index of the phases in the sample, the refractive index n or the Lorenz–Lorentz function (n2 − 1)/(n2 + 2) may directly be taken as measure for the composition.
Method	Otherwise, the Lorenz–Lorentz relation can be used to determine the concentration.
Method	The Lorenz–Lorentz relation connects the averaged polarizability 〈αi〉 and the number densities ρi = Ni/V of the components of a mixture to the refractive index, where Ni is the number of particles of the component labelled i.
Method	For a binary mixture we have
Method	The averaged polarizabilities 〈α1〉 and 〈α2〉 are nearly independent of composition and temperature.
Method	With the total number density ρ = ∑iNi/V and ρi = xiρ the Lorenz–Lorentz relation may be reformulated in terms of the mole fractions xi or in terms of the volume fractions φi = ρiVi.
Method	For a binary mixture the Lorenz–Lorentz relation reads in terms of the mole fraction x of the component labelled 1The density may be written in terms of the partial molecular volumes vi = Vi/Ni asFor pure compounds eqn. (10) becomeswhere 〈α1〉0 and vi0 denote the average molecular polarizability and the volume per molecule in the pure components, respectively.
Method	In many applications, the Lorenz–Lorentz function eqn. (10) is identified with the ideal expression based on the parameters of the pure compounds:
Method	In our analysis, it turns out to be necessary to supplement the ideal expression by an excess term, which takes care of excess volume and excess contributions to the polarizabilties.
Method	With the Porter-Ansatz for the excess function and the assumption that the excess function assumes their maximum value at critical composition we getK = Kid[1 + 4Y (1 − Y)(Kc − Kcid)/Kcid],where Kc is the value of the Lorenz–Lorentz function at critical composition.
Method	The variable Y was defined in eqn. (8), where p = xc/(1 − xc).
Method	Eqn. (15) is used in the final data analysis.
Method	Samples of critical composition were prepared for solutions of the RTIL C6mim+BF4− in alcohols (1-butanol, 2-butanol, 1-pentanol and 2-pentanol).
Method	The alcohols with certified purity (1-pentanol (Fluka) > 99%, 1-butanol (Fluka) (HPLC), 2-butanol (Fluka) > 99.5%, and 2-pentanol (Sigma-Aldrich) > 99%) were used without further purification.
Method	The ionic liquid C6mim+BF4− was purchased from Solvent Innovation.
Background	Standard NMR-, MS- and chromatographic analysis did not show impurities.
Method	Traces of water were removed from the salt by keeping it for three days at 60 °C under oil-pump vacuum and storing it in a desiccator.
Method	Solutions were made up by weight with a precision of ±0.1 mg.
Background	The critical compositions for the systems have been determined before and are given in .ref. 1
Method	The samples were prepared in standard square 10 mm cells (Hellma, PY 221).
Method	The critical solutions were filled into the cells using a syringe and a septum in order to prevent condensation of moisture in the sample.
Method	The samples were flame sealed under vacuum after a pump and freeze procedure.
Method	The criticality of the samples was checked employing the equal-volume criterion.
Method	The cloud points were determined visually by repeated cooling the homogeneous solution in a thermostat (Schott) with glass windows filled with water.
Method	The temperature was determined with an accuracy of 0.01 °C using a Quartz thermometer (Hereus QUAT200).
Method	The refractive index was measured in the uniform phase above the critical temperature and in the two-phase region by means of the minimum beam deflection method.6
Method	The coexistence curves of the system were determined from the refractive indices of the upper and of the lower phase.
Method	The optical arrangement and further details are described in .refs. 7–9
Method	In order to prevent the formation of meta-stable states the temperature steps were increased when lowering the temperature in the two-phase region.
Method	A waiting time of about 8 h was necessary to achieve a complete phase separation.
Method	Equilibrium was assumed when the two phases were no longer opalescent, and the position of the laser beam on the screen did not change any more.
Method	By checking the critical temperatures before and after the refractive index measurements, we tested the stability of the critical temperatures.
Result	A shift of the critical temperatures of −8 × 10−8 K s−1 was observed during the measuring time and taken into account in the data evaluation.
Method	As the critical temperature, we choose the average between the last measurement in the homogeneous phase and the first point in the two-phase region, which limits the accuracy of the critical temperature to 0.005 K. The data analysis was carried out using the Origin 6 and Mathematica 4 program packages.
Method	The coexistence curves of the binary solutions of C6mim+BF4− in 1-butanol, 2-butanol, 1-pentanol, and 2-pentanol were obtained by refractive index measurements.
Method	In addition, the refractive index of the pure compounds was determined by the same method.
Result	The temperatures and the corresponding refractive index data in the one phase region and in the coexisting phases below Tc are given in the electronic supplement. The upper phase is the alcohol-rich phase and has the lower refractive index.
Method	The small differences of the refractive indices between salt and solvents limit the relative accuracy of the measurements.
Method	In fact, the refractive indices of the alcohols and of the salts are so similar that it is difficult to see the meniscus.
Result	The coexistence curves obtained from the refractive index measurements are shown in Fig. 1.
Method	The reduced temperature τ is plotted as function of K − Kc.
Method	We employ the Lorenz–Lorentz function K as variable instead of the often-used refractive index8,22 because it is more directly related to thermodynamic quantities than the refractive index.
Method	At first, we check the accuracy of the critical composition deduced from the equal volume criterion.
Result	It can be seen that the Lorenz–Lorentz function K in the homogeneous phase and the diameter Km, which is the mean of the K values in the coexisting phases, meet at the critical temperature.
Method	No offset is noticeable, which proves that our samples have the critical composition.
Result	The coexistence curves with K as composition variable are strongly skewed like the top of a banana.
Result	Due to the banana shape, two temperatures correspond to the same K value.
Result	In the upper phase (alcohol-rich phase with the lower refractive index), the variation of K with the temperature is very small.
Result	The variation of the refractive index in the salt-rich, lower phase is much larger.
Result	The coexistence curves of the solutions in 1- and 2-butanol are wider than those in 1- and 2-pentanol.
Conclusion	Obviously, the more polar alcohol can mix with the salt better.
Result	There is little difference between the isomers; the width of the coexistence curves of the secondary alcohols is only slightly larger than that of the primary alcohols.
Result	In the one-phase region, the Lorenz–Lorentz function is reduced linearly with increasing temperature.
Background	This can be expected from the linear decrease of the density with temperature raise.
Result	No indication of a non-analytic critical contribution63 can be seen.
Result	In contrast, the diameter shows a marked nonlinear temperature dependence: the rectilinear diameter rule clearly does not apply.
Background	Estimates of the critical composition based on the rectilinear diameter rule are necessarily far off.
Result	The slope of the diameter has the same sign as the slope in the one-phase region.
Result	The temperature dependence of the diameter is slightly stronger than the temperature dependence of K in the homogeneous phase.
Result	Both, the temperature variation of K in the one phase region and of Km are almost the same for different mixtures.
Result	The curves, which concern the mixture with 1-butanol, are the best fits using eqns. (6) and (7), which will be dicussed in what follows.
Result	In Table 1, we give parameters obtained from fitting different functions to the experimental data of the coexistence curve.
Method	As a routine we apply first a simple power law, where the exponent βeff is a free parameter, and then use the Wegner-type expansions for the fit with up to two coefficients.
Method	In the expansion the exponents β and Δ are fixed, while the amplitudes B, B1, and B2 are the fitting parameters.
Result	The effective exponents βeff are found to be smaller than the Ising value, which may be taken as indication of non-monotonous crossover to mean field criticality.
Result	Accordingly, the first correction term in the Wegner-type expansion comes out negative.
Result	However, conclusions based on the size of the coefficients are difficult, because their values change, when the second correction is included into the fit.
Result	The statistical error estimated for the parameters becomes then unduly large, which shows that the parameters are not independent.
Background	Hence, the expansion with two correction terms is not appropriate, therefore not included in Table 1.
Result	Comparing the deviations from the asymptotic Ising behaviour for the different alcohols no obvious systematic can be seen.
Method	The diameters Km of the coexistence curves are analysed by fitting different approximants of eqn. (7) to the data, where the amplitudes A, C, D and Kc are the fitting parameters, while the exponents are fixed to their universal values.
Method	At first, we employ one-term expansions with Kc and one of the amplitudes A, C, or D as fit-parameters.
Method	In a next step, a two-term expansion is used containing the linear term A and either the 1 − α term D or the 2β terms C.
Result	The relevant results of the fits are given in Table 2.
Result	The fits, which consider only the 1 − α term, are already rather good.
Result	Including the linear term improves the fit although the statistical uncertainty becomes too large.
Result	The value of the corresponding parameter D changes only little when the linear term is included in the fit.
Result	The fits which include the linear and the 2β term are not as good as those, which include the linear and the 1 − α term and in most cases even worse than those that involve the 1 − α term only.
Result	In Fig. 2a we show the log–log plots of ΔK = Kl − Kuvs. the reduced temperature τ for the four systems.
Method	The sets of data points are shifted by an offset for visual clarity.
Result	The points appear to follow straight lines.
Result	Deviations for τ < 10−4 are due to the rather small difference of the refractive index between the phases and due to the limited accuracy of the critical temperature, which was only ±0.005 K. Above τ = 10−4 no change of the direction can be seen although the measurements cover a temperature range up to 10 K from the critical point.
Result	The lines in Figs. 2a and 1 represent the best fits obtained with eqn. (6) with one Wegner correction.
Result	Fig. 2b shows the diameters of all investigated samples as function of the reduced temperature τ in a logarithmic scale.
Method	Again, the curves are shifted by arbitrary factors for a better view.
Method	The curves in Figs. 1 and 2b are the fits with Kc, A and D as fitting parameter.
Result	The banana shape of the coexistence curves obtained shown in Fig. 1 indicates that K is not a good choice of a variable.
Result	Furthermore, in the homogeneous phase the refractive index varies with temperature, although the relative composition of the components is unchanged.
Result	Therefore, composition variables, which are constant in the homogeneous phase, like the mole fraction x or the mass fraction w appear more appropriate.
Result	From the theoretical point of view, the volume fraction φ is the best choice of a concentration variable.
Background	Dividing by the molar volume, which is almost independent of temperature in the critical region, it can easily be transformed into the density required in the advanced theoretical analysis.47,48
Method	In order to investigate the influence of the choice of the variables on the parameters in eqns. (6) and (7), we transform the refractive index data into the concentration variables x, w, and φ.
Method	The data are reanalysed in terms of those variables.
Background	For estimating the mole fraction of a mixture from refractive index data it is necessary to know the refractive indices and the densities of the pure components.
Method	The refractive indices of the pure components were also determined by the minimum deflection method.
Background	Density data of the alcohols are collected from standard sources.64
Background	The densities of the salt have been measured using a pycnometer.2
Result	The resulting molar volume of the salt is Vs = (224.76 + 0.13324 ΔT) cm3 mol−1 agrees rather well with Vs = (227.116 + 0.1575ΔT) cm3 mol−1 (ΔT = T − 318.15 K) obtained by linear interpolation of the volumes of the salts C4mim+PF6−, C8mim+PF6− and C8mim+BF4−,65 which was assumed in the analysis in .ref. 1
Result	The data of the pure compounds required for the transformations are summarized in Table 3.
Result	In the table, we give the refractive index n298, the polarizability α298, the mass densities ρm298, and the linear temperature coefficients n1, α1 and ρ1 of the pure compounds.
Method	In order to check the accuracy of the transformation, we calculate the value of K at the critical point assuming ideal mixing properties and vice versa recalculate the mole fraction of the critical sample from the refractive index data.
Result	As can be seen in Table 4, the relative accuracy of the estimate of K is 0.001, while relative accuracy of the mole fraction is only 0.1.
Background	Both figures are not sufficient for our purpose.
Method	In order to achieve the required accuracy it is necessary to take into account the excess of the mole refraction.
Method	Therefore we apply the correction for non-ideal contributions as given in eqn. (15), which ensures consistent figures for Kc and xc within the accuracy of the measurements.
Result	The excess of the Lorenz–Lorentz function is positive, while pycnometric measurements2 point towards a positive excess volume, which would account for a negative excess of the Lorenz–Lorentz function.
Result	This observation indicates a positive excess of the averaged polarizabilities that overcompensates the effect of the small but noticeable positive excess volume.
Method	Finally we compare the coexistence curves, which are based on the estimates for the composition obtained from the refractive index measurements with the phase diagrams, which are obtained by direct observation of the appearance of the meniscus in samples of given concentration.1
Result	Fig. 3 shows the phase diagrams of the investigated systems with the weight fraction as concentration variable.
Result	As can be seen, there is no substantial difference between the separation curves obtained by the two methods.1
Result	This proves not only the reliability of our analysis, but it shows also that the compounds are sufficiently pure: The maximum of the phase diagram, determined by visual observation of the phase separation in a set of samples of different composition, is identical with the critical concentration.
Background	In three-component systems, this is usually not the case.9
Result	We mention that preliminary measurements with salts, which were not dried, yielded a critical point different from the maximum of the phase diagram.
Result	In Fig. 3, we have included data of other solutions (water, 1-propanol and 1-hexanol) that were obtained by the visual method1 to emphasize the corresponding-state similarity of the phase diagrams.
Result	The coexistence curves in terms of the new variables are shown in Figs. 4.
Result	Representing the coexistence curves in terms of the variables x, w, and φ the banana shape that was found in the representation in terms of the Lorenz–Lorentz relation, see Fig. 1, disappears.
Result	The representation in terms of the mole fraction is still rather skewed, while the mass fraction gives the most symmetrical shape.
Result	In all figures, the coexistence curves of all four systems are very similar.
Result	Only a minor difference between the solutions in the 1-alcohols and the 2-alcohols is noticeable.
Result	The curves of the mixtures with the 1-alcohols appear slightly more narrow and symmetrical than those of the mixtures with the secondary alcohols.
Method	The coexistence curves represented by the concentration variables mole fraction x, weight fraction w and the volume fraction φ are analysed in the same way as done in Section 4.1, where the Lorenz–Lorentz function was the concentration variable.
Result	The results of the fits are given in Table 5.
Method	In the fits, the critical temperatures Tc were fixed to the experimental values.
Method	We start with a fit to a simple exponential with the exponent βeff as a fitting parameter.
Result	With the exception of the temperature dependence of Δx, the analysis of the coexistence curves in terms of the other variables (Δw or Δφ) yield values for the exponent β that are smaller than the Ising value.
Result	When the coexistence curves are represented by the mole fraction, we get figures slightly above or below the Ising value.
Result	The results of the fits by a Wegner-type expansion with one correction term correspond to this analysis: small positive or negative values of B1, when x is the variable, or larger negative figures of B1 when w or φ is chosen.
Result	As can be seen in Table 5, the fits to a single exponential, where the exponent β is a free parameter and to a one-term Wegner expansion with fixed exponents are equally good.
Result	No systematic is noticeable, when the deviations from the Ising value are compared for the different solvents.
Result	The representation of the coexistence curve by the mass fraction requires larger corrections than the volume fraction.
Background	Fits involving two Wegner corrections are not included in the table because of the large uncertainty of the parameters obtained.
Result	In Fig. 5a, we show the log–log plots of Δφ drawn as function of τ for the investigated systems.
Result	The data follow straight lines that are almost parallel.
Result	This indicates a very good representation of the data by an effective exponent, which is used to draw the lines.
Problem	It remains to analyse, how the choice of the variables influences the diameter of the coexistence curves.
Result	As can be seen in Figs. 3 and 4 the diameters (Xu + Xl)/2 of the coexistence curves clearly show a nonlinear temperature dependence.
Background	Again, the curves are not detailed enough to allow free fits of all the coefficients in eqn. (7).
Method	Therefore, we start with one correction assuming either an exponent 2β or 1 − α.
Background	As in the analysis of Km, the critical compositions Xc are treated as parameter in the fits.
Result	In Table 6, we display the results of the fits with D as parameters and the fits with the two parameters A and D.
Result	The results of the other fits are given in the electronic supplement. The agreement among the resulting values for Xc between the various fits and the estimates based on the known composition is of the order O(0.01).
Result	Two terms were required to yield a reasonable fit.
Result	In almost all cases, the combination of the linear term with the 1 − α term is superior to that with the 2β term, although the difference is not impressive.
Result	The linear term is always negative.
Result	The linear and the 1 − α term are always of the same order of magnitude but differ in the sign, which indicates that in the fit the parameters are coupled.
Result	In fact, in the two-parameter fit the amplitude D is always about four times of that obtained in the one-parameter fit.
Result	The Fig. 5b shows the diameter with the fit function when the volume fraction is chosen as concentration variable.
Conclusion	Concluding, we state that, independent of the concentration variable; the temperature dependence of the diameter is consistent with the assumption of a linear term and a non-analytic contribution with an exponent 1 − α.
Conclusion	The additional presence of a non-analytic 2β term cannot be excluded.
Problem	In this work we have investigated the coexistence curves of solutions of the RTIL C6mim+BF4− in 2-pentanol, 1-pentanol, 2-butanol, and 1-butanol.
Method	For this purpose, we have measured the refractive index in critical samples of critical composition by applying the minimum beam deflection method.
Result	Measurements on mixtures with higher alcohols turned out to be unfeasible because the difference between the refractive indices of the RTIL C6mim+BF4− and the alcohols became too small to allow for reliable measurements.
Background	We first discuss the location of the critical points of the investigated solutions in the RPM phase diagram.
Problem	Assuming that the anion is located above the centre of the imidazolium ring and using vdW radii, we estimate for the distance of the ions in an ion pair 4.6 Å, which is in agreement with simulation66 and scattering67 results.
Method	Using the reduced variables of the RPM, the values for the reduced critical temperature Tc* vary from 0.09 to 0.14.
Result	We find a monotonous increase with the dielectric permittivity ε of the solvents, which is 10.2, 12.6, 15.2, and 16.6 for the alcohols 2-pentanol, 1-pentanol, 2-butanol, and 1-butanol, respectively.
Result	The figures estimated for Tc* are above the value of 0.049, predicted by simulations of the RPM.
Result	However, they are much below 0.65, found for this salt in water, where the phase transition is caused by hydrophobic interactions.1
Conclusion	Therefore, we expect that the phase transition is mainly driven by Coulomb interactions.
Result	We note, that the variation of Tc* is in agreement with the first simulation results on ionic solutions.
Background	The reduced critical temperature in mixtures of charged hard spheres and hard spheres68,69 comes out higher than in the RPM and increases further, when the hard spheres are replaced by dipolar hard spheres.68
Result	Considering the reduced density, we find figures below the RPM value of ρc* = 0.08.
Result	No simple correlation exists between the critical density and the dielectric permittivity of the solvents.
Result	The primary and secondary alcohols form a group, where the critical reduced density is higher for the n-alcohols (1-pentanol: 0.063, 1-butanol: 0.065); the corresponding figures for the secondary alcohols are 0.056, and 0.060, respectively.
Conclusion	This indicates that packing effects modify the interactions of the ions with the solvent and influence the location of the critical point.
Background	Such dependence on the structure of the solvent was already noted in the investigation of solutions of N4444+Pic− in alcohols.8
Background	We now turn to a discussion of the nature of the critical point.
Method	The investigation of the coexistence curve is particularly appropriate for this purpose as, the relative change of the exponent β is larger than for the exponents ν or γ, when going from mean field to Ising behaviour.
Problem	Therefore, it appears promising to investigate the coexistence curve in order to trace eventual differences in the critical properties of ionic and non-ionic systems.
Result	For our systems, we find effective exponents βeff for the coexistence curve that are near to the Ising value.
Result	Within the accuracy of our measurements, we see no change of βeff with temperature.
Result	The log-log plots Figs. 2a and 5a appear perfectly linear.
Result	No curvature or change of the slope can be seen indicating a sharp crossover within a small temperature range.
Background	A quantitative analysis of the corrections to scaling depends on the choice of the variable chosen to represent the coexistence curve.
Background	Therefore, we will discuss this matter using the criteria given by Japas and Levelt Sengers.60
Background	The mass faction is the variable, which yields critical points near w = 0.3, which is the value nearest 0.5 obtained for the set of variables considered.
Background	The mole fraction gives the most asymmetric location of the critical point, which is xc = 0.11 for 2-butanol and 0.14 for 1-pentanol.
Background	With K as variable, the critical compositions are Kc = 0.24 for all alcohols.
Background	The volume fraction yields similar figures.
Background	Clearly, the symmetry criterion supports the mass fraction, where wc = 0.3.
Background	Judging, however, by the value found for the effective exponent βeff the mole fraction appears to be the best choice followed by the mass fraction.
Background	The quantitative analysis of the diameter anomaly also rests on the chosen variable.
Conclusion	Here, the best choice appears to be the Lorenz–Lorentz function, because in the fit with one variable, the 1 − α term gives by far the best representation of the data and, furthermore, the amplitude D is almost unchanged when the linear temperature dependence of the diameter is taken into account.
Conclusion	From the phenomenological point of view, it can be said, there is no clear evidence why one of the variables should be preferred.
Background	However, according to the theoretical analysis of Anisimov et al62. there is no ambiguity about the choice of the variable: The density of one component is the appropriate variable, which is the volume fraction divided by the molar volume.
Background	Because the molar volume is changing very little in the investigated temperature range, it is trivial matter to transform the fit results for the volume fraction into such of the concentration.
Background	Unfortunately, the analysis in terms of the crossover theory47,48 is not trivial and merits a separate paper.
Result	Accepting the volume fraction as the best variable βeff is found to be significantly smaller than the Ising value.
Result	The figures are in general agreement with the behaviour observed on the alcohol solutions of N4444+Pic−.8 However, for solutions of N4444+Pic− in long-chain alcohols like tetradecanol positive deviations from the Ising value were found, which became smaller with increasing value of ε and negative for 2-propanol.
Background	2-propanol was the only alcohol with chain length <10 considered in this investigation.
Background	In the work reported here, the polarities of the alcohols are between that considered in ref. 8 but near to that of 2-propanol.
Result	Accordingly, we find negative deviations when the variables K, w, or φ are used.
Conclusion	Negative deviations indicate non-uniform crossover to mean field behaviour at higher temperatures.
Result	No regular variation of βeff with the dielectric permittivity ε of the solvent can be observed.
Background	Quite likely, the ε-range of the solvents used in this work is too small to establish such dependence.
Background	The non-analytic temperature dependence of the diameter of the coexistence curves is a general property of phase transitions in fluids belonging to the Ising universality class.
Background	The amplitude, however, depends on specific properties of the system.
Background	In many systems, the amplitude is too small to be seen.
Background	Substantial deviations from the rectilinear diameter rule are common in systems where the intermolecular interactions themselves depend on the density.
Result	This is the case, e.g. in liquid-gas phase transition of metals, where one phase is an insulator and the other a molten metal.70
Background	In a fluid of charged hard spheres the low-density phase can be pictured as a gas of ion pairs while the high-density phase appears as an expanded melt containing essentially free ions.53
Conclusion	In this picture the effective interactions are indeed density dependent, which may explain the observed irregularity.
Background	With the exception of Pitzer′s system (N2226+B2226− in biphenylether)7 the diameter anomaly observed in the C6mim+BF4− solutions was observed in all other ionic systems investigated.8–10
Background	A substantial diameter anomaly appears to be a signature of ionic systems.
Conclusion	Concluding, we state that the coexistence curves of the investigated systems agree remarkably well in the corresponding state representation.
Conclusion	We state Ising critical behaviour for a set of new nearly Coulomb systems and confirm the earlier results obtained on systems with rather limited chemical stability.
Conclusion	The coexistence curves show Ising critical behaviour with deviations.
Result	No indication of a second maximum in the coexistence curves is noticeable, which is predicted for phase transition with strong coupling to a tricritical point.52
Result	The deviations of the exponent βeff from the Ising value depend on the choice of the order parameter chosen for the analysis.
Result	With the exception of the mole fraction, the analysis in terms of all other possible variables yields a negative deviation from Ising criticality, which may be taken as an indication of non-monotonous crossover.
Result	Deviations from the asymptotic Ising exponent are noticeable in the complete temperature range investigated and not only in the region with τ > 10−2, where deviations from Ising critical behaviour are common.
Result	A sharp crossover, reported from the turbidity measurements58 of solutions of picrates in alcohols, is not observed in the phase diagrams.
Background	Measurements of higher accuracy in the mK-region are desirable, which are expected to show the change of the effective critical exponent from the asymptotic Ising value to the region with negative deviations, while investigations in a wider temperature range should show the increase of βeff towards the vdW mean field value.
Background	Finally, we mention a result, which may be important in respect to applications of the RTILs in separation processes.
Result	Already 10 K below the critical points the refractive index of the alcohol-rich phase is almost identical with that of the pure solvent.
Result	Using the coefficients obtained for describing the coexistence curve, we estimate that the salt content is below 1%, while the equilibrium concentration of the alcohol in the salt-rich phase is substantial.

Problem	Self-aggregation and phase separation of a styryl dye in monolayer at the liquid–air interface and in Langmuir–Blodgett films
Method	The styryl dye 4-[2-[6-(dioctylamino)-2-naphthalenyl]ethenyl]-1-(3-sulfopropyl)-pyridinium inner salt, (Di-8-ANEPPS), was incorporated in mixed Langmuir, (L), monolayers with the cationic surfactant, octadecyltrimethylammonium bromide, (OTMA).
Result	The stability of the monolayers was found to vary with the surface pressure and the amount of the diluent in the mixtures.
Problem	The organization of the dye at the interface, deduced from surface pressure–area, π–A, and surface potential–area, ΔV–A, isotherms, is compared with the spectroscopic data in Langmuir and Langmuir–Blodgett, (LB), films.
Result	UV–visible absorption spectra of the pure dye and of the mixtures in L and LB monolayers show the formation of aggregates or domains of Di-8-ANEPPS within the matrix at high amphiphile content.
Result	On the contrary, successful transfer of the monomeric form of the dye was achieved using small molar fraction of the cationic matrix.
Background	The investigation of new amphiphilic fluorescent molecules has gained attention due to their interesting electric and optical properties.1,2
Method	In this regard the application of molecular assembly techniques has proven to be an excellent alternative to casting and evaporation methods in preparation of ultra-thin films.3–5
Method	In particular, Langmuir, (L), monolayers have been widely used as mimetic systems to investigate the self-organization and the nature of the intermolecular interactions, either at the air–water interface or in films transferred onto solid supports by the Langmuir–Blodgett, (LB), technique.3–7
Problem	The present paper reports the spectroscopic characterization of a styryl dye, (Di-8-ANEPPS), embedded in a diluent matrix of a cationic surfactant, (OTMA), in L and LB films.
Background	Like other styryl dyes,8 Di-8-ANEPPS molecules exhibit a strong tendency to aggregate in monolayer and in multilayer systems.
Background	Moreover, these dye molecules are known to respond to changes in the surrounding medium by modifying their electronic properties.9–11
Method	The film-forming features of the mixed monolayers were evaluated by means of surface pressure–area, π–A, and surface potential–area, ΔV–A, isotherms.
Problem	The spectroscopic behaviour of pure and mixed films at the subphase–air interface as well as in LB films was investigated and compared with the electronic spectra of Di-8-ANEPPS in solution.
Method	The dye 4-[2-[6-(dioctylamino)-2-naphthalenyl]ethenyl]-1-(3-sulfopropyl)-pyridinium inner salt, Di-8-ANEPPS, was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR) and octadecyltrimethylammonium bromide, OTMA (purity 99.5%), was purchased from Fluka.
Method	The solvents chloroform and methanol were of spectroscopic grade (Aldrich).
Method	Amphiphiles and solvents were used as purchased, without further purification.
Method	Water was obtained from a Milli-RO coupled with a Milli-Q set-up (Millipore), 18.2 MΩ cm resistivity and pH 5.6 at 20 °C.
Method	An aqueous buffer (pH 3.70), prepared using citric acid anhydrous (Fluka, purity 99.5%) and di-sodium hydrogen phosphate dihydrate (Fluka, purity 99.0%), was used as subphase.
Method	Quartz slides (Hellma) were used as solid supports; they were cleaned with chromic acid overnight, then rinsed with water and immersed in an ultrasonic bath with CHCl3 for 10 min.
Method	π–A isotherms were obtained with a Lauda Filmwaage FW2 (Lauda, Germany) by discontinuous compression; the compression rate was about 8 Å2 molecule−1 min−1; three π values were recorded for each surface area with a time interval of 30 s between the measurements.
Method	Thirty minutes were allowed for solvent evaporation and monolayer equilibration at the interface prior to compression.
Method	All the spreading isotherms shown in this paper are the average of at least two curves and were obtained at 20 °C using a Haake thermostat with a water circulation bath.
Method	ΔV–A measurements were obtained with the method of the ionising electrode by using 241Am electrodes with an apparatus assembled in the Department of Chemistry (Florence) and previously described.12,13
Method	The accuracy of π is ±0.1 mN m−1, of A is ±0.5 Å2 molecule−1 and of ΔV is ±10 mV.
Method	Monolayer relaxation studies, at constant π = 15 mN m−1, were performed using a KSV 3000 film balance (KSV Instruments).
Method	The compression rate of the two movable barriers was 3 mm min−1.
Method	After relaxation, Langmuir films of Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA mixtures were transferred onto quartz slides with an upstroke rate of 12 mm min−1 and a downstroke rate of 1–2 mm min−1.
Method	The transfer ratio obtained12 is 1.0 ± 0.1 in all cases.
Method	UV–visible absorption spectra were obtained using a Perkin-Elmer Lambda 900 spectrophotometer.
Method	The absorption spectra at the liquid–air interface, at constant areas, were obtained using a Y-shaped fibre optic system connected to the light source and to the photodetector.
Method	The light beam passes through the monolayer and it is reflected via a ‘hard coated’ mirror, placed just below the aqueous surface.14
Method	The fluorescent spectra of the LB films were measured with a Perkin-Elmer LS-50B luminescence spectrometer, using a homemade slide holder especially designed to orient the substrates at 30° and at 60° in the excitation and in the emission mode, respectively.
Method	Semi-empirical calculations were run using the software HyperChem 5.1 (HyperCube, USA)15.
Result	Fig. 1 shows π–A and ΔV–A isotherms for the monolayers of Di-8-ANEPPS and OTMA and their mixture on citrate buffer (pH 3.70).
Method	The use of buffer solution, instead of pure water subphase, is required in order to avoid the complete dissolution of the lipidic matrix into the bulk phase.
Result	In Table 1 we report the main parameters extracted from the isotherms, i.e. the limiting molecular area A0, the collapse surface pressure πc, the maximum surface compressibility modulus C−1s and the maximum surface potential value, ΔVmax.
Result	A0 is determined extrapolating the linear portion of the isotherm to zero surface pressure, πc corresponds to the maximum change of slope of the π–A isotherms and C−1s is defined as:16 The surface pressure–area profile of the dye monolayer on buffer solution shows a liquid-expanded behaviour, as confirmed by the low surface compressibility modulus value (C−1s = 44 mN m−1), with a limiting molecular area of 51 Å2 molecule−1 and a collapse surface pressure of 39 mN m−1 (see Table 1).
Result	Surface potential values follow a linear increase with increasing surface density of the monolayer with a maximum ΔV = 509 mV.
Background	From the analysis of the spreading isotherm it is possible to estimate the orientation of Di-8-ANEPPS molecules at the interface.
Method	The experimental surface potential, ΔVexp, for uncharged or un-ionisable substances, is correlated to the vertical component of the dipole moment, μ⊥, of the amphiphile forming the monolayer17,18 by the relation: where  is the intrinsic dipole moment of the molecule, μ⊥ is its vertical component and ϑ is the angle between the dipole moment vector and the normal to the interface, A is the molecular area and ε and ε0 are the relative dielectric constant and the permittivity of the free space, respectively.
Method	The dipole moment, , of a molecule can be calculated with respect to the centre of mass of the molecule using the following equation:where ZA is the charge of the nuclear core, RA is the distance between the origin and nucleus A and ri is the distance between the origin and electron i.
Problem	On the basis of previous works on analogous compounds in solution19 we considered two possible conformations of Di-8-ANEPPS (see Fig. 2) differing only for the position of the polar head group.
Result	We computed the dipole moment for both conformations obtaining || = 33.9 D in case A, and || = 27.2 D in case B where the polar head group is rotated out-of-plane.
Result	In both calculations the dipole moment vector is directed along the −S–N+ bond, in Fig. 2 we also report the inertial axes and the dipole moment vectors computed with respect to the centre of mass of the molecule.
Result	Application of eqn. (2) to the dye monolayer at maximum packing provided an angle ϑ = 89.5° between  and the normal to the interface for conformation A. In the case of conformation B, we obtained ϑ = 89.3°.
Result	Fig. 2 shows the molecules oriented according to these tilt angles: for conformation A the entire molecule would lies almost parallel to the water–air interface whereas for conformation B the polar group of the dye resides on the aqueous surface whereas the chromophoric moiety and the alkyl chains point towards the air phase.
Conclusion	Conformation A was excluded on the basis of the molecular areas at maximum packing observed experimentally (see Table 1): in fact for conformation A depicted in Fig. 2 we would obtain a cross section of 360 Å2, a value exceedingly larger than the experimentally observed A0.
Conclusion	On the contrary, the cross-section obtained for case B is 70 Å2 a value of the same order of magnitude of the experimental one, therefore we selected the latter conformation as more likely to occur at water–air interface.
Method	This choice is also supported by NMR20 and polarized fluorescence studies21,22 of styryl dyes in a lipid membranes, where a perpendicular orientation of the molecule with respect to the interfacial plane is observed.
Result	In the case of Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA mixtures, π–A profiles indicate monolayers in a liquid-expanded phase, as confirmed by the low surface compressibility modulus values (40–50 mN m−1).
Result	Moreover, ΔV–A curves are shifted towards surface potential values larger than in the case of the pure dye although the profile of the isotherms remains very similar.
Method	We obtain additional information on the interaction of the dye with the lipidic matrix analysing the variation of mean molecular areas and of surface potential values at constant surface pressure as a function of the molar fraction of the dye.
Result	The data are reported in Fig. 3a and in Fig. 3b, respectively.
Result	The mean molecular areas and ΔV values are higher than those calculated for ideal mixed monolayers except in the case of the equimolar ratio.
Result	In the case of mean molecular areas, the displacement is higher at lower surface pressures, while the surface potential data follow the opposite trend.
Conclusion	These results indicate that the Di-8-ANEPPS and OTMA molecules give non-ideal mixtures with repulsive interactions with the exception of the equimolar mixture where an ideal miscibility or a complete immiscibility is inferred.
Conclusion	Unfortunately, the difference in πc between the two components is too small to draw any exhaustive conclusion on this point.
Problem	We checked the stability of mixed Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA Langmuir films by monolayer relaxation studies (see Fig. 4) recording the area loss at constant surface pressure.
Result	The picture shows the results obtained at π = 15 mN m−1 for Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA mixtures of different composition.
Result	We observed that the relative decrease in At/A0 is more pronounced in the presence of OTMA molecules.
Result	The analysis of the results indicates a partial desorption/dissolution process23,24 of the monolayer into the subphase, further studies are in progress to define the mechanism of this phenomenon.
Problem	We acquired the absorption spectra of the dye molecules at the subphase–air interface in order to evaluate the influence of the lipidic matrix on the electronic properties of the dye.
Result	As illustrated in Fig. 5a, the spectrum of the pure Di-8-ANEPPS, recorded immediately following the deposition of the dye on the surface (105 Å2 molecule−1), is similar to the solution spectrum in methanol.
Result	The low energy band centred at 500 nm in solution, corresponding to the π–π* transition over the entire chromophore, is shifted to 484 nm at the subphase–air interface, while the band at 322 nm arising from the isolated transition on the pyridinium and naphthyl moieties19,25–27 is slightly visible.
Result	It is interesting to note that, 30 min after spreading, the low energy band completely disappears and a new band centred at 348 nm emerges.
Result	The latter transition could be ascribed to the formation of H-aggregates at the interface, as previously reported by other authors for similar compounds.19,27
Result	After 60 min no more changes were observed in the absorption spectrum; the monolayer was further compressed to higher dye surface density and absorption spectra again acquired.
Result	Surprisingly no changes were evidenced, either in the position of the bands or in the maximum absorbance values.
Conclusion	This indicates that the dye remains in the aggregated domains as the packing of the monolayer increases; the constancy of absorbance is ascribed to the relaxation phenomena at the liquid–air interface, previously described, that causes an overall loss of the chromophore from the monolayer towards the bulk phase.23,24
Result	In the case of the mixed monolayers, the time required for the π–π* transition to vanish increases slightly with increasing molar fraction of Di-8-ANEPPS.
Result	Fig. 5b shows typical absorption spectra acquired after the equilibration time at low surface density for some of the Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA mixed monolayers examined; the corresponding absorption maxima are reported in Table 2.
Result	In the same table we also report the ratio between absorbance maxima of the monomer (AbsM; λ = 465 nm) and aggregate (AbsA; λ = 348 nm); the data show that in the case of the 4∶1 mixture the ratio is in favour of the monomer form.
Result	For XD8 ≤ 0.5 the absorption spectra show always a band between 320 and 370 nm, which could be ascribed to the convolution of the monomer and aggregate transitions.
Result	On the contrary, in the case of 4∶1 Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA monolayers, no aggregate formation is evidenced in the spectrum and the low energy band is shifted to lower wavelengths (see Table 2) with respect to the monomeric form in methanol.
Result	Interestingly, the monomer absorption band in the spectrum recorded immediately after monolayer spreading was centred around λ = 465 nm, a value similar to the pure dye monolayer and only slightly smaller than λmax in methanol.
Background	We recall that the monomer absorption in chloroform was observed at λ = 550 nm.28
Conclusion	The shift in the monomer band position might be correlated to a more polar microenvironment sensed by the chromophore in the mixture;10,11,29 this would imply a deeper penetration of the chromophoric part in the water sublayer at the interface.
Result	We successfully transferred monolayers of the 1∶4, 1∶1 and 4∶1 mixtures onto quartz slides in the Y configuration: Figs. 6a and 6b describes the UV–visible absorption and fluorescence emission spectra of 1 LB monolayer of the selected mixtures.
Result	Absorption spectra are similar to those obtained at the liquid–air interface.
Result	In particular, for XD8 ≤ 0.5 the absorption spectra show a band centred at about 350 nm that we already ascribed to the transition of H-aggregate molecules.
Result	The fluorescence emission spectrum shows a maximum at λem = 424 nm.
Conclusion	Thus, based on the electronic spectra recorded for the LB films, we deduce that the aggregate structure formed in Langmuir monolayers is transferred unaltered onto the substrate.
Conclusion	This statement is supported also by fluorescence emission experiments.
Result	In the case of Di-8-ANEPPS in solution a fluorescence maximum was found at λem = 636 nm in chloroform28 and at λem = 610 nm in methanol.
Conclusion	Fluorescence emission maximum is found at λem = 434 nm in the case of a single LB layer for the mixtures at low Di-8-ANEPPS content (XD8 ≤ 0.5), such displacement in fluorescence maxima is assigned to emission from the H-aggregate27,30 in agreement with the previous deductions.
Result	On the contrary, in the case of the 4∶1 Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA LB film, the absorption band shifts to 450 nm, and the fluorescence spectrum shows a maximum at λem = 627 nm (see Table 2) confirming the presence of Di-8-ANEPPS monomer.
Result	This is also clearly evidenced by the computed ratio of the absorbance maxima reported in Table 2.
Result	The results obtained for the LB films are in good agreement with the L monolayer with the exception of the 1∶4 mixture where a larger uncertainty is expected due to the extremely low Di-8-ANEPPS content.
Background	Moreover, comparison with a solvatochromic characterization10,11,29 of Di-8-ANEPPS previously performed indicates that the monomer resides in a rather polar environment also when transferred in the LB film.
Result	The absorbance of the electronic spectra recorded for the multilayer systems does increase linearly with the number of layers (data not reported): the outcome is in accordance with the absorbance behaviour at the subphase–air interface.
Background	The above results allowed to propose a hypothesis on the association of the dye in the mixed monolayers.
Result	In the case of XDi-8-ANEPPS ≤ 0.5, OTMA molecules screen the high negative charge density of the dye, allowing the formation of domains of H-aggregates of Di-8-ANEPPS at the interface.
Result	Such domains can be transferred on solid supports without any modification in the structure of the aggregate.
Result	In contrast for XDi-8-ANEPPS > 0.5 the electrostatic repulsion between the dye amphiphiles predominates and hence Di-8-ANEPPS molecules are dispersed in the OTMA matrix mainly in a monomeric form.
Method	Surface characterization of the styryl dye Di-8-ANEPPS is achieved by surface pressure–area and surface potential–area isotherms on buffer subphase as a function of increasing molar fraction of a diluent matrix, OTMA.
Result	The data indicate the presence of repulsive interactions between the two components, except in the case of the equimolar ratio where a complete immiscibility is supposed.
Result	The absorption spectra of the pure dye and of the mixtures at the liquid–air interface show the formation of domains of aggregates within the amphiphilic matrix at low dye content.
Result	In particular, in the case of XDi-8-ANEPPS ≤ 0.5, no monomer species are detected in L and in LB films neither by absorbance spectroscopy nor by fluorescence emission.
Result	Interestingly, a significant population of Di-8-ANEPPS monomers appears in the absorption and emission electronic spectra of the 4∶1 Di-8-ANEPPS/OTMA monolayer, both at water–air interface and in LB film.
Result	In this case, we also observed that the chromophoric part of the dye molecule resides in a rather polar environment.
Conclusion	Since the understanding of the energy migration and transfer in such monolayer and LB systems is essential for the rational design and fabrication of chemical devices based on vectorial energy and electron transport, these results on the aggregation behaviour in an organic matrix appear relevant for the fabrication of microelectronic devices.

Problem	Adsorption kinetics of charged thiols on gold nanoparticles
Method	Colloidal Au nanoparticles have been functionalized with mercaptopropane sulfonate (MPS) and mercaptoethylamine (MEA) short alkanethiols in aqueous solutions.
Problem	Adsorption kinetics of these charged thiols onto gold nanoparticles has been followed by the decrease in the surface plasmon band at 530 nm due to the red shift caused by particle-to-particle aggregation.
Problem	Titration curves resulted from plotting the 530 and 800 nm-absorbance versus the added amount of thiol in solution, and yielded the mercaptane coverage on Au.
Conclusion	While the adsorption of positively charged MEA on negatively charged Au colloid is very rapid, slower and more complex adsorption kinetics have been found for the negatively charged MPS.
Background	Metal nanoparticles have attracted great interest because of their possible use in “bottom-up” construction of nanoelectronic devices with spherical nanoparticles and cylindrical nanorods1–4 since they possess unique optical, electrical, magnetic and catalytic properties.
Background	Gold nanoparticles synthesised by citrate reduction of HAuCl4 solutions are nearly monodisperse spheres of a sized controlled by the preparation conditions, 20 nm in our case.5,6
Background	They have a negative surface charge as a consequence of bond citrate and present a characteristic surface plasmon mode absorbance at 520–530 nm for 15–20 nm Au nanoparticles.
Background	Interesting optical properties such as surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) by as much as 1013–1014 fold7 and visible luminiscence8,9 have been reported for monolayer-protected gold clusters.
Background	A red-shift in reflection mode (red to blue colour change of the transmitted light) is observed when the interparticle distance is shortened.10,11
Background	This shift is observed for the floculation of functionalized Au nanoparticles for instance when high ionic strength electrolyte solutions are added to the particle colloidal solutions due to screening of the negative charge particle repulsion leading to shorter interparticle distances12 or when DNA,13,14 or heavy metal ion15 linkers are used to form larger linked-particle assemblies.
Background	Close proximity of Au nanoparticles in self-assembled films also causes a red-shift phenomena.16–19
Background	Theoretical interpretation of light extinction (absorption and scattering) of metal spherical colloids dates back to Mie.20
Background	Quinten and Kreibig developed theoretical models for the optical properties of different non-linear aggregates.21
Background	Two-dimensional arrays of varying diameter have been obtained after thiol modification of nanocrystals with alkanethiols of different chain length.22
Background	The surface plasmon absorption band of metal nanoclusters is sensitive to the adsorbed ions or surface complexed molecules, which dampen the surface plasmon band as shown for colloidal silver particles23,24 with I– and SH–, and for Au nanoparticles capped with tetraoctylammonium bromide.25
Background	Whitesides and co-workers26 have described the change in the floculation of gold nanoparticle dipersions upon chemisorption of alkanethiols bearing terminal functional groups by observation of the spectral changes in the UV-Visible range (red shift).
Background	However, a detailed kinetic study of these changes has not been reported.
Problem	In the present study we analyse the adsorption kinetics of positively and negatively charged short alkanethiols on 20 nm average diameter citrate stabilized gold colloidal nanoparticles5 by the evolution of the optical absorption in the 400–800 nm region.
Problem	From “titration” experiments of the colloidal suspension with diluted thiol solutions we obtain the moles required for colloidal surface saturation following the changes of the absorption spectra.
Problem	Kinetic information has been obtained monitoring the attenuation of the plasmon band in presence of large excess of thiol with respect to the concentration required for thiol surface saturation.
Method	The following materials were obtained from Aldrich: HAuCl4 3H2O (99.999%), trisodium citrate dihydrate (99,9%), 3-mercapto-1-propane sulfonate (MPS), 2-mercaptoethylamine hydrochloride (MEA), 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid (MUA), 6-mercaptohexanol.
Method	All the solutions were prepared from Milli Q water.
Method	All glassware used in the preparation and derivatisation of colloidal Au was treated with aqua regia (3 parts HCl, 1 part HNO3), rinsed in Milli-Q water, and oven-dried prior to use.
Method	Colloidal gold was prepared following the procedure reported by Natan and co-workers.5
Method	Briefly, in a 250 ml round-bottom flask equipped with a condenser, 100 ml of 0.01% HAuCl4 was brought to a boil with vigorous stirring; and to this solution was added 1.5 ml of 1% sodium citrate.
Method	The solution turned blue within 25 s and the final colour change to red-violet 70 s later.
Method	Boiling continued for an additional 10 min, the heating source was removed, and the colloidal was stirred for another 15 min.
Method	The colloidal dispersions were filtered through 0.2 µm filter to trap any large particles.
Method	Particle size was verified by TEM indicated an average diameter of 20 ± 1 nm.
Method	Gold nanoparticles in aqueous dispersions were imaged in a Phillips CM200 Transmission Electron Microscope after placing drops of a dispersion onto gold grids, formwar of 400 mesh (SPI, PA, USA), and allowing the liquid to dry in air at room temperature.
Result	Confirmation by light scattering (90Plus/BI-MAS multi angle particle sizing option, Brookhaven Instuments Corp, NY) yielded 21 ± 0.4 nm.
Method	Derivatisation was performed by adding thiol solution to a stirred colloidal suspension at room temperature.
Method	The effect of adding charged thiols on the red-shift in colloidal suspensions was monitored by the absorbance spectrum in the 400–800 nm region with a Shimadzu UV–1603 spectrophotometer in standard quartz cuvettes.
Method	The citrate stabilised particles were further derivatised with 3-mercapto-1-propane sulfonate (MPS, negatively charged end) and 2-mercapto ethyl amine hydrochloride (MEA, positively charged end) respectively and the progress of the thiol adsorption was followed in a UV-visible spectrophotometer.
Method	Post derivatisation of the citrate stabilized nanoparticles was performed by successive steps, each one consisting of small volume additions of 0.4 mM thiol solution (volume ratio 1/300), to a stirred colloidal suspension and recording the UV–vis stationary spectra.
Method	In the case of MPS the reaction was so slow that it was necessary to wait ca. 20 min to satisfy this requirement.
Method	In situ thiolation during particle formation by the citrate reducing agent was accomplished by the method described by Kunitake et al.27.
Background	It is well known that stability of aqueous colloidal suspensions of alkanethiols derivatised gold nanoparticles is strongly dependent on the way of synthesis.
Background	In fact, further addition of thiols to stable suspensions usually leads to instability and the kinetic evolution of the resulting system also depends on the way the addition is carried out.
Background	Yoneyama and Kunitake27 have shown that gold nanoparticles are stabilized by alkanethiols if added to citrate AuCl4– solution during the synthesis and the particle size can be controlled by thiol concentration/gold ratio.
Result	In Fig. 1 we compare the uv-visible absorbance spectra for freshly prepared aqueous dispersions of mercapto propane sulfonate (MPS) stabilized gold nanoparticles (a) prepared by reduction of AuCl4– in solutions containing both citrate and the thiol of different MPS to total Au concentration ratio (b–d).
Result	A single absorption peak at 530 nm is observed with absorbance decreasing at increasing thiol concentration.
Result	TEM analysis has shown individual particles with no aggregation apparent, and size decreasing at increasing thiol concentration.
Result	If the same thiols are added once the citrate stabilized Au nanoparticles have been formed, aggregation and further floculation occurs while a red shift in the absorbance spectrum is observed.
Background	Whitesides26 has reported changes in floculation of Au nanoparticle dispersions upon chemisorption of alkane-thiols bearing functional groups by observation of the spectral changes (red shifts).
Result	Fig. 2 shows the absorption spectra of alkanethiol stabilized citrate Au nanoparticles after addition of different thiols.
Result	It should be noticed that the spectra depends strongly on the alkane chain length and the nature of the functionalized end group.
Result	Two absorption peaks are apparent at 530–535 nm and 630–660 nm respectively.
Result	For long enough alkane thiol chains such as MUA (mercaptoundecanoic acid) only the 535 nm absorption band is observed (Similar results have been shown by Mulvani et al.11,19. with SiO2 coated Au nanoparticles) and a stable suspension is obtained (Fig. 2b).
Result	For short alkanethiols as MPS (Fig. 2c) and MEA (Fig. 2e), on the other hand, kinetic effects are observed and the spectra also depend on the time elapsed after thiol addition.
Result	The different behaviour should be related to the replacement of adsorbed citrate anions on the nanoparticle by thiol upon addition of thiol solution.
Method	After addition of thiol solution to stabilized citrate Au nanoparticles a decrease of relative absorbance at 530 nm ΔAr = [A(τ) – A(∞)]/[A(0) – A(∞)] is observed.
Result	This is a consequence of a decrease on the individual nanoparticles concentration.
Result	An intriguing feature of the thiol adsorption on nanoparticles is the adsorption kinetics: While functionalization of the Au nanoparticle by the positively charged thiol (MEA) is very fast as can be seen in Fig. 3a, for negatively charged MPS on the other hand, the process is quite slow (see Fig. 3b).
Background	In these experiments the thiol is in large excess with respect to the concentration required for surface saturation as it is shown later.
Method	The absorbance decay is the result of two successive processes: adsorption of thiols and aggregation of derivatised particles.
Result	Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) examination of the resulting red-shifted dispersions demonstrates the floculation of the thiol modified nanoparticles as shown in Fig. 4a and 4b for MPS and MEA respectively.
Result	Different results are obtained from experiments where the amount of thiol is very small with respect to the concentration required for surface saturation (see below).
Result	Figs. 5 and 6 show the evolution of the steady state absorption electronic spectra of Au nanoparticles after addition of increasing amounts of thiol to the particle dispersion for MPS (Fig. 5) and for MEA (Fig. 6).
Result	Three relevant features are apparent: (a) the surface plasmon energy is constant; this is due to the fact that the radii of the individual nanoparticles is practically unmodified when the number of Au–S bonds or thiol surface coverage increases, (b) The absorbance at the surface plasmon resonance frequency (λ = 530 nm) decreases with the increase in the amount of the added thiol, this effect indicates a loss of individual nanoparticles density, and c) at higher wavelengths (600–800 nm) a new absorption band appears which increases with the amount of adsorbed thiol.
Result	This results in a colour shift at the naked eye from red to blue (by transmitted light) which has been ascribed by several authors to shortening of the particle-to-particle distance upon colloid aggregation.10–21
Result	Longer chain alkanethiols also decrease the surface plasmon band absorbance but the long wavelength red shift is absent for mercaptodecane.
Result	Figs. 7 and 8 depict plots of the steady state absorption at 530 and 800 nm respectively as a function of the total number of moles of added thiols.
Result	For both thiols we observe a similar trend in the absorption dependence on the number of moles of mercaptane added which decreases for 530 nm while increases for 800 nm until a similar final absorption value is reached, ca. 0.7 and 0.8 for MEA and MPS respectively.
Result	Extrapolation of the absorption titration curves in Figs. 7 and 8 to the final value results in a similar value of added thiol, ca. 8 nmol.cm–3.
Result	This quantity can be correlated with the surface concentration of MPS or MEA adsorbed on the colloidal particles: The concentration of gold nanoparticle suspension is 1.6 × 10–9 molar.
Result	This value was obtained considering that the mass of HAuCl4 employed for colloidal suspension preparation was completely transformed into colloidal particles with an average diameter of 20 nm which has been confirmed by STM measurement on HOPG, TEM and light scattering.
Result	The area per particle calculated from this diameter, 1.02 × 10–11 cm2, leads to a total surface colloid area of 9.7 cm2 per cubic centimetre of suspension.
Result	Under the assumption that the 8 nmol cm–3 involved in the titration process were totally adsorbed, a surface concentration of 8.2 × 10–10 mol cm–2 has been obtained.
Result	This value is coincident with the coverage reported for a totally covered Au surface by alkanethiol, c.a. 10–9 mol cm–2.28
Conclusion	This evidence strongly suggests that the final value obtained from the extrapolation in Figs. 7 and 8 is equivalent to a stoichometric point of a titration of the colloid surface.
Result	When derivatisation is completed the surface of gold nanoparticles are covered by a monolayer of thiol adsorbed molecules with their sulfonate or amino end-groups respectively pointing towards the solution and as a result of this a well characterised colloid surface is obtained.
Background	It is worth noticing that in either case the negatively charged Au nanoparticles have been functionalized with positively or negatively end charged short chain alkanethiols.
Background	So far we have discussed the steady state absorbance of mercaptane protected Au clusters.
Problem	Using the experimental approach described above it is possible now attempt an explanation for the kinetic evolution of their optical spectra either in the case of MPS and MEA.
Background	Whitesides has discussed the mechanism for SAM formation on Au nanoparticles, their stability and floculation.26
Method	The optical density of non-aggregated particles is expected to be proportional to relative absorbance ΔAr, [A(t) – A(∞)]/[A(0) – A(∞)].
Method	If the rds were the aggregation step, dA/dt should be proportional to the square of the non-aggregated particle density, and consequently proportional to ΔA2r at the beginning of the process.29
Result	This is observed in the case of MEA: the reciprocal of ΔAr shows a linear dependence with time for about 20 s (Fig. 9).
Result	Conversely, in the case of MPS this dependence is far from being observed.
Result	As depicted in Fig. 3 for different MPS initial concentrations the time evolution of the absorbance at 530 nm indicates very slow and concentration dependent adsorption kinetics.
Result	As expected, the higher the thiol concentration the faster the mercaptane uptake by the gold nanoparticle.
Result	It should be noticed that the result observed is not due to an increase of the solution ionic strength since no effect was observed upon addtion of NaCl of the same concentration as the sodium mercaptopropanesulfonate, but a high concentration of salt (ca. 1 M) produces a red-shift of the colloidal solution.
Result	The rate of the process is reflected in the shape of the Avs.t dependence at 530 nm.
Result	It is noteworthy that the shape of the transients depicted in Fig. 3 are not indicative of simple kinetics.
Result	A good curve fit could be obtained with the following empirical equation, as depicted in Fig. 10 (solid lines).where C is the thiol concentration, k an apparent rate constant and b an empirical parameter.
Method	Eqn. (1) may be explained if the adsorption process is considered to be the rds step.
Result	It has to be taken into account that at the beginning this process is very slow due to the electrostatic repulsion of a negatively charged thiol with a negatively charged colloid30 and also that a subsequent acceleration of the reaction is observed when the thiol is adsorbed.
Method	A suitable expression to account for this experimental condition is: where S is the fraction of free surface of the colloidal particles.
Method	To a first approximation, the adsorption rate is expected to be proportional to S and C.
Method	The reaction order ½ on thiol concentration is assumed for a dissociative adsorption isotherm or for the involvement of two binding sites per thiol molecule.
Method	The reaction:HSRSO3– + 2Au – X– = AuHads + AuSRSO3 ads– + 2X–where X– could be the chloride or the citrate anion30 accounts for the mercaptane surface modification and is consistent with the reaction order and the change in the surface negative charge.
Background	Brust and co-workers have provided NMR evidence for the adsorption of RSH or adsorbed hydrogen with the thiol on the Au nanoparticles.31
Method	The term (1 – S) is introduced in the kinetic law in order to take into account that an increment of thiol surface concentration facilitates the adsorption process; this is similar to the effect observed for autocatalytic reactions and would indicate that the reaction proceeds via a thiol associative mechanism.32
Method	The exponential term in eqn. (2) corresponds to the contribution of the electrostatic work to the free energy of activation due to a decrease in the colloidal particles charge surface density as a result of the adsorption process (exchange of surface anions by the chemisorbed thiol).
Method	The electrostatic energy involved in bringing a charged thiol ion from infinite separation to the equilibrium distance at the colloidal particle surface (activated complex), r, is given by: where a is the area of a colloidal particle, e the electron charge, ε0 the electrical permittivity of free space, ε the static dielectric constant and σ is the surface density of charge of a colloidal particle.
Method	σ may be written in terms of the relative uncovered surface, S, as: σ = σ0S + σ1(1 – S) = (σ0 – σ1)S + σ1where σ0 and σ1 are the surface charge densities corresponding to S = 1 and S = 0 respectively.
Method	Then eqn. (4) may be rewriting as: we = α + βSwhereFinally the adsorption rate constant is given by:k′ = k0exp(–we/RT) = k′0exp(–βS)Titration curves in Figs. 7 and 8 show that ΔAr is linearly dependent on the number of adsorbed moles, n, before the titration end point, n0.
Method	This may be indicated as:and considering that n is proportional to the coverage, i.e. (1 – S), it is easily found that ΔAr = S.
Method	Replacing this ratio in eqn. (2), we find the empirical eqn. (1).
Result	The increase in the high wavelength absorption of functionalized nanoparticles has been related to the decrease in the particle to particle distance, this has been further proved by monolayer protection of Au nanoparticles with 6-mercaptohexanol (MH) and 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid (MUA).
Result	In the present case a shorter nanoparticle average separation is consistent with a decrease in the charge surface density upon thiol binding to the Au nanoparticle.
Problem	While the change in the surface plasmon absorption intensity is given by the interaction of each individual Au nanoparticle with the electromagnetic radiation, the red shift corresponds to a cooperative association of colloidal particles.
Result	For short length particle-to-particle spacers such as short alkanethiols the coupled dipole interacting with the light results in a red shift while for longer spacers such as MUA the dipolar interaction is very weak or nonexistent and only the plasmon absorbance band is observed.
Result	For intermediate thiol lengths, such as for mercaptohexanol, two distinct absorbance bands are apparent at 530 and 670 nm.
Result	Both short chain alkanethiols, irrespective of their end charge, lead to a red shift and a decrease in the plasmon band intensity of the citrate-formed Au nanoparticles.
Result	The end charge, however, determines the kinetics of the whole derivatisation process, i.e. adsorption–aggregation, because of the electrostatic interactions with the negatively charged citrate formed Au nanoparticles.
Conclusion	In the case of MPS, our results show that the kinetics are determined by the adsorption step.
Conclusion	Conversely in the MEA case the adsorption step is so fast due to electrostatic attraction and the rate determining step is the aggregation step.
Conclusion	With the present experimental evidence it is not possible to exclude that the aggregation process following the adsorption step does not influence the adsorption kinetics by either positive or negative feedback.
Result	A quantitative analysis of the absorption time dependence, based on a repulsive interaction model, is consistent with the experimental kinetic evidence.
Background	It should be noticed that the present analysis is only valid if the adsorption kinetics is rate determining step and if the system aggregates.
Background	Examples of thiol-modified oligonucleotides, peptides, aminodextrans, etc. that give stable colloidal dispersions have been reported and it is not clear at present why aggregation occurs in some cases and not in others33.

Problem	Studying reaction kinetics by simultaneous FRET and cross-correlation analysis in a miniaturized continuous flow reactor
Method	In this study we present a refined optical detection technique for investigation of fast reactions based on confocal fluorescence spectroscopy in a miniaturized continuous flow (μCF) reactor.
Method	The special setup allows for simultaneous observation of the reaction on the basis of fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET) as an indicator of the reaction progress.
Method	Determination of the flow velocity via spatial fluorescence cross-correlation enables the conversion of spatial information, i.e. the position of the detection point, into the respective temporal information.
Method	To overcome the disadvantage of conventional continuous flow reactors of high sample consumption, we used a microfluidic chip allowing an economical expenditure of sample solution at low concentration, while the silicon/glass chip is perfectly adaptable to the confocal setup.
Background	Inside these channels, rapid, diffusion-based mixing under laminar flow conditions is performed at the crossing of three channels by squeezing the solutions into thin layers.
Problem	Using this μCF device, we investigated the irreversible cleavage reaction of a double stranded DNA oligomer by the enzyme exonuclease III.
Method	The complementary DNA strands are stained with TAMRA and Cy 5 dye molecules, respectively, undergoing an energy transfer if both strands are annealed.
Result	The reduction of the Cy 5 fluorescence directly corresponds to the progress of the cleavage reaction.
Method	Time-resolved kinetic studies of chemical and biochemical processes provide essential information for a detailed understanding of molecular interaction and reaction mechanisms.
Method	However, many of these reactions occur on very short time scales that render an appropriate time resolution particularly hard for conventional techniques of data collection.
Method	Thus, a wide variety of techniques have been proposed in the past and developed for the initiating and probing of fast reactions in the time scale of microseconds and below, such as relaxation techniques for reversible reactions induced by temperature or pressure jumps,1,2 or flash photolysis for light-induced reactions.3
Background	Many biological reactions, e.g. enzymatic catalysis, are induced by mixing and collision of two (or more) reactants.
Method	For the observation of fluid-based reactions in general, continuous and stopped flow methods were introduced quite early on 4 and since then have been constantly improved with respect to temporal resolution from a few seconds down to the submicrosecond regime.5,6
Method	The beauty of the continuous flow kinetics is the concept of transforming the temporal information into a spatial one, supporting the simultaneous observation of a system at different time points by spatially resolved detection.
Method	In spite of their conceptual elegance, continuous flow experiments usually suffer from the practical drawback that large amounts of sample solution are consumed during the experiment, which has in the past limited their applications.
Background	However, in the age of micro- and nanotechnology, these rather old-fashioned concepts have gained a wholly new relevance.
Background	By a consequent downscaling of the channel dimensions to micrometer dimensions, the reaction volume can be tremendously decreased to the order of a few μL.
Background	Additionally, using a proper channel design, there is basically no dead volume (defined as the volume between the point where the reaction is initiated, and the first observation point).
Background	There is one significant difference to the standard applications, though:7 On such small scales, the flow is strictly laminar.
Background	The Reynolds (Re)-number—determined by the quotient of friction to inertial forces, and indicating the transition of laminar to turbulent flow—usually lies between 1 and 10 for typical flow velocities of a few mm s−1 in micrometer-sized channels.
Background	This is far below the value of ∼2000 where turbulences and consequently, turbulence-induced mixing, can be expected.
Background	Without an elaborate additional instrumentation e.g. modification of the channel walls8 that supports fast mixing, or electro-kinetic turbulent mixing modules,9 the starting of reactions is solely based on molecular diffusion within the sample.
Background	The time that a molecule needs to travel an average distance by diffusion is proportional to the square of the distance.
Background	Thus, diffusion-limited mixing can be sped up by miniaturization of the diffusion zone.
Background	A straightforward way to achieve this was introduced by Knight et al.10
Method	Here, a fast sheath flow of reactant A from two side channels merges with the flow in a middle channel containing another reactant B, thereby focussing the solution in this central zone down to a thin layer (see also the schematic drawing in Fig. 1, right inset).
Method	The control parameter in these mixing devices is the ratio of flow rates in the side and main channels.
Method	The characteristic mixing time for this so-called hydrodynamic focussing depends on the size of the flow layers as well as on the molecular diffusion coefficients of the sample.
Method	After initiating the reaction by mixing, a crucial requirement to investigate fast reaction dynamics is a high spatial resolution of the readout process along the channel.
Method	In addition, proper readout parameters have to be defined which reliably reflect the reaction progress, and which can be determined with high sensitivity to avoid delays due to signal accumulation.
Method	Furthermore, to precisely translate the spatial position of the observation points along the channel to the exact time points of the reaction, the control and knowledge of the flow velocity is indispensable.
Method	In this study, hybrid silicon elastomer/glass chips comprising a miniaturized channel system were employed as continuous flow reactors, adapted to a confocal setup for high-resolution optical detection.11
Problem	Both the characteristic properties of the flow system as well as the progress of the reaction, could be simultaneously determined by means of fluorescence spectroscopy with high sensitivity and at low sample concentrations.
Method	To precisely control the flow velocity within the sample, spatial fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy12,13 was employed.
Method	This special mode of confocal analysis is performed by creating two slightly displaced laser foci by a single microscope objective.
Method	Each of these fluorescence excitation volumes is observed independently by a sensitive detector.
Method	By proper alignment of the sample flow inside the microfluidic channels, the emission signal from fluorescent molecules that are successively passing both excitation volumes is measured.
Method	Cross-correlation analysis of the signals results in a curve with a distinct maximum, corresponding to the average time that a molecule needs to travel the distance between both excitation volumes.
Method	Contrary to alternative imaging techniques, dual-beam cross-correlation in a confocal setup allows for very sensitive analysis, and for real-time monitoring of the flow velocity with high spatial resolution.
Problem	This optical setup was modified to observe the progress of the cleavage reaction of a double stranded DNA oligomer by the enzyme exonuclease III via dual-color fluorescence analysis.
Method	The complementary DNA strands are labelled with orange fluorescent TAMRA and red fluorescent Cy 5 dye molecules, respectively, promoting an efficient fluorescent resonant energy transfer (FRET) from the donor TAMRA to the acceptor Cy 5 if both strands are annealed and intact.
Method	The dual-color fluorescence analysis of the DNA was supported by spectral discrimination of the emission signal in two detection channels, quantifying donor and acceptor emission.
Result	During reaction, the enzyme cuts the nucleotides beginning at the 3′ end.14
Result	The spatial separation of the dyes results in the loss of energy transfer.
Result	Thus, the decrease of fluorescence intensity in the acceptor detection channel purified of cross-talk from the donor detection channel reports directly the progress of the cleavage reaction.
Background	Although standard dual-color cross-correlation in principle allows the direct determination of slow irreversible enzymatic cleavage reactions15 with reaction rates of a few minutes (i.e. reactions that are clearly slower than the time needed for data acquisition), fast reaction mechanisms could so far not be resolved.
Conclusion	The introduction of μCF could thus greatly improve the time resolution whithout a significant reduction of detection sensitivity.
Background	The optical setup based on a dual-beam setup12,13 is modified (Fig. 1).
Method	The 514 nm line of an Ar-Ion laser (Lasos, Jena, Germany) passes two polarizing beam splitter cubes to create two parallel but slightly displaced laser beams.
Method	For equalizing the intensity of both laser beams, a λ/2-waveplate is used.
Method	The beams are coupled into an inverted microscope (Olympus IX 50) and focussed by an objective (Olympus UplanApo 60×, NA1.2) creating two excitation spots (I = 80 kW cm−2).
Method	The fluorescence from each spot is spectrally split by a dichroic mirror (specifications in figure caption, all purchased from AHF, Tübingen, Germany), passes respective band pass filters and is then imaged onto the entrance slits of two fiber bundles serving as confocal pinholes.
Method	The bundles consist of two separate fibers with distinct aperture distances (200 μm) corresponding to the distance of the focused laser spots.
Method	With the objective of 60× magnification, the centres of both laser spots have a distance of 3.3 μm.
Method	Each fiber is connected to separate detectors (SPCM CD3017, EG&G).
Method	In this way, four detection channels are created, allowing both the determination of flow velocities by spatial cross-correlation of signals from the same fiber bundle, and the dual-color fluorescence analysis from the spectrally distinct signals measured by different fiber bundles at the same spatial position.
Method	The data acquisition is performed using two correlator cards (ALV Langen, Germany).
Method	For calculations and data fitting procedures, Origin software (Microcal) was employed.
Method	The optical setup was calibrated by standard autocorrelation analysis of the four detection channels with a tetramethylrhodamine solution (under diffusion condition, i.e. without flow).
Method	In the case of optimal adjustment, the four autocorrelation curves match perfectly, indicating the same size of the spectrally and spatially distinct measurement volumes.
Method	From the autocorrelation function, the dimensions of the approximately cylindrical detection volume could be determined.16
Method	It has a radius of 0.5 μm and a half length of 2.85 μm (data not shown).
Method	Spectra were taken with a fiber optic spectrometer (S2000, Ocean Optics).
Method	The microstructured channels are formed in poly(dimethyl)siloxane (PDMS, Sylgard 184, Dow Corning) using a teflon coated silicon wafer as mould (fabricated by GeSim, Großerkmannsdorf, Germany) and cut to a size of ∼2 × 3 cm.
Method	They are sealed by a coverslip tightly adhering to the silicone rubber.
Method	The sample supply is facilitated by punched holes.
Method	The channels are 15 μm high and 25 μm width (narrow section: 6 μm).
Method	The total length of the observation channel is 10 mm.
Method	The channels are fabricated freshly before each experiment to minimize contamination by dust.
Method	To generally prevent adsorption of protein to the channel walls, a buffer solution containing BSA (1 μg ml−1) is introduced and incubated for 30 min.
Method	To apply flow velocities faster than 2 mm s−1, the coverslip and the PDMS structure are treated in a plasma cleaner for 5 min and immediately pressed together, so that they form a strong bond.
Method	The holes at the end of the channels are connected to syringe pumps by tubes.
Method	For the continuous flow reaction, double stranded DNA (28 bp) is labelled with Cy5 (Amersham) at the 5′ end of one single strand and carboxytetramethylrhodamine (TAMRA, Molecular Probes) at position 14 of the complementary strand.
Method	10–30 μl of DNA solution (3.7 nM in 1× NE buffer 1 pH 7, New England Biolabs) is fed into the input reservoir of the middle channel, the side channel reservoirs were filled with the same amount of an exonuclease III solution (New England Biolabs, 15–793 μM in the same buffer solution).
Method	All experiments are carried out at 21 °C.
Method	Mixing is facilitated using a crossed microfluidic channel system, where the DNA substrate is fed into the middle channel and enzyme solution into the side channels.
Background	At the intersection, the solutions merge to three parallel fluid layers.
Method	The thickness of each layer is determined by the flow rates that can be regulated by the hydrodynamic pressures exerted by different heights of the respective liquid reservoirs.
Method	For the here described experiments, the flow rates at each entrance channel are identical, which are precisely controlled by measuring the flow velocities via dual-beam cross-correlation (see below).
Background	The efficient mixing of two different solutions inside the channels is illustrated in Fig. 2.
Result	The intensity profiles of TAMRA fluorescence perpendicular to the flow direction indicate that the mixing of the DNA solution is started directly at the channel junction.
Method	However, to circumvent artifacts arising from non-uniform concentration profiles, a narrowing neck section was introduced in the main channel shortly after the channel junction, resulting in a supplementary narrowing of the parallel flow layers.
Result	A complete mixing of both solutions, i.e. an evenly distributed fluorescence intensity, is obtained immediately after passing this neck and thus, the reaction conditions are equalized over the channel cross-section.
Method	Considering the measured flow velocities of the solutions, the mixing time can be determined.
Result	For the here described experiments with typical velocities of max.
Result	1.3 mm s−1, it is approximately 100 ms.
Result	By adaptation of self-made tubing connectors and syringe pumps, flow velocities up to ∼50 mm s−1 are accessible.
Background	However, for fast flow rates, the concentration profile of sample due to incomplete mixing has to be taken into account.
Conclusion	In this context, a further decrease of the channel dimensions that supports faster mixing would be useful.
Problem	We were carrying out the cleavage reaction of a double stranded DNA oligomer (28 bp) by the enzyme exonuclease III that cuts the nucleotides beginning at the 3′ end.
Method	The part strands of the DNA oligomer are labelled with carboxytetramethylrhodamine (TAMRA) and Cy 5, respectively.
Result	The spectra of the DNA before and after the enzymatic cleavage reaction of the nucleotides are shown in Fig. 3.
Method	Assuming a reaction scheme without fluorescent intermediates, the intensity of the Cy 5 fluorescence (ICy5) can be calculated in the following way:17ICy5 = ηintact[DNA]intact + ηcleaved[DNA]cleavedwhere [DNA]intact and [DNA]cleaved are the concentration of DNA, and ηintact an ηcleaved are the molecular brightnesses of Cy 5 in the presence and absence of energy transfer, i.e. if Cy 5 is bound to the intact or cleaved DNA strand, respectively.
Method	The brightness of Cy 5 in the intact DNA (ηintact) has a constant value, depending on the energy transfer efficiency from TAMRA to Cy5.
Method	After the reaction, ηcleaved = 0 can be assumed and thus, the concentration of intact DNA is directly proportional to the intensity of Cy 5 fluorescence.
Method	Since the applied laser intensity is low, we neglect photobleaching that is generally very weak in flowing systems.
Problem	For fast and sensitive measurements in the microfluidic channel system, we determined the fluorescence intensity, i.e. the count rate of detected photons, by spectral filtering in two detection channels (Ired and Iorange), corresponding to donor and acceptor fluorescence.
Background	For calculation of the “pure” Cy 5 fluorescence intensity (Icy5) from the experimentally determined signal in the red detection channel it has to be considered that the count rate does not decrease to zero even in the case of completely cleaved DNA.
Result	After subtraction of the background mainly due to stray light from the microchannel and the constant direct excitation of Cy 5 at λ = 514 nm (summarized in Ired,bg), the remaining signal is caused by cross talk, i.e. the red fluorescence tail from TAMRA.
Result	It is determined to be 8.3% of the signal intensity of TAMRA (ITAMRA).
Method	Thus ICy5 is calculated as follows:ICy5 = Ired − Ired,bg − 0.083 × ITAMRAITAMRA is the signal in the orange detection channel (Iorange) minus a constant background (Ired,bg):ITAMRA = Iorange − Iorange,bgICy5 is normalized by dividing the values by the initial fluorescence intensity (ICy5,0), eliminating variations due to experimental (i.e. pipetting) errors.
Result	For the applied laser intensity and the DNA concentration of 3.7 nM, the initial signals of the DNA solution are typically Iorange = 250 kHz and Ired = 350 kHz.
Result	The average background signals were determined for pure buffer solution filled into the microfluidic channels, Iorange,bg = 8.4 kHz and Ired,bg = 3.4 kHz.
Result	The red signal due to direct excitation of Cy 5 by λ = 514 nm is 50 kHz.
Result	After initiating the cleavage reaction inside the microchannel by mixing, the decrease of ICy5 is followed at 15 different positions (p) between 0–6000 μm downstream (Fig. 4, top).
Conclusion	A monoexponential decrease of the fluorescence intensity can be observed, in full agreement with the proposed reaction mechanism that a fast steady state formation of the DNA–enzyme complex is followed by a first-order cleavage reaction with the reaction rate kreaction (The index “0” indicates the values at position 0):
Result	At high flow rates, the reaction is delayed and deviations from non-exponential behavior are apparent, reflecting the time needed until the complete DNA cleavage can first be detected, as well as non-idealities in mixing.
Method	To rule out unspecific removal of educt or product due to adsorption to the channel walls, the microfluidic channels were incubated with BSA buffer.
Problem	The intensities of orange and red fluorescence (i.e., the concentrations) were checked for a pure intact DNA substrate, as well as for free nucleotides labelled with the respective fluorophores.
Result	They proved to be constant all along the observed channel length.
Problem	To determine the exact flow time from the mixing point to the observation point, representing the reaction time, spatial fluorescence cross-correlation spectroscopy is employed.
Method	Here, the flow velocity v is analyzed by cross-correlation of the signals emitted from the two displaced focal spots.
Method	By subtraction of the resulting forward and backward cross-correlation curves for the time τ, the “true” directional cross-correlation signal G(τ) exhibits a maximum for the flow time τf,cc.
Method	The flow time correspond to the time that the fluorescent molecules need to travel from the center of the first to the second focal spot, if the flow direction is aligned with the connecting axis of the two foci (α = 0).
Method	The flow time τf,cc is determined using the following expression:12with N, the number of particles flowing through both focused spots, and τd, the average transit time of the molecules through one focal element in the case of pure diffusion.
Method	ω0 and z0 are the 1/e2 dimensions of the detection volumes in the radial and axial direction.
Method	R is the distance of the focal spots (here: 3.3 μm, see experimental section).
Method	Hence, the position of the observation point p is translated into the reaction time t as follows:
Result	The flow velocity v determined in the center of the channel after mixing of the reactants is varied from 0.3 to 1.3 mm s−1 (flow times between 2.6 and 10.0 ms, Fig. 3).
Result	Translating position into time for the results in Fig. 4 (bottom), we determine the reaction rate of the cleavage reaction with kreaction = (0.75 ± 0.04) s−1.
Conclusion	It is nicely confirmed for all applied flow velocities.
Result	Under saturation conditions, the rate of digestion is about 10 nucleotides per second, since the enzyme has to cut 14 nucleotides (nt) until the energy transfer is eliminated which is in the range of the reaction rates previously measured by Hoheisel18 (∼1–16 nt s−1).
Background	However, differences in temperature and buffer composition might influence the reaction rates, as well as the low melting temperature of the short DNA double strands, resulting in early strand separation and after cutting just a few (instead of 14) nucleotides.
Problem	Finally, the reaction is followed for various enzyme concentrations between 15 and 40 μmol l−1 at constant flow velocity of 0.3 mm s−1.
Background	We were applying the same analysis as described above.
Result	The reaction rates obtained (Fig. 5) are—as expected—increasing with increasing enzyme concentration (approximately linear for low concentrations).
Result	For high enzyme concentration a saturation value of the reaction rate is reached in good agreement with the theoretically expected course (see also ref. 18).
Problem	In this study, a new scheme for the investigation of fast reactions based on confocal fluorescence spectroscopy in a miniaturized continuous flow (μCF) reactor was presented.
Method	By dual-beam cross-correlation, the flow velocity inside the microchannel can be comfortably controlled.
Method	Simultaneously, the reaction progress was followed by dual-color analysis, and the reaction rate of the DNA cleavage could be determined.
Method	To overcome the drawbacks of conventional CF reactors with regard to high sample consumption, self-made microfluidic chips were employed, allowing an economical expenditure of sample solution of a only few μL, while low concentrations (nM) could be used due to the high sensitivity of the detection setup.
Result	The overall sample consumption thus amounted to only ∼10−14 mol = 10 fmol which makes the device extremely valuable for studying (biochemical) reactions where the amount of available sample is often very low.
Result	A broad temporal range from μs to seconds is accessible, although for fast velocities above 1 mm s−1 the non-uniform concentration profile needs to taken in to account.
Conclusion	Due to the sensitivity of the optical setup that supports the detection of single molecules, the concept can be extended to the study individual molecular events, where subpopulations can be resolved and more detailed information of the reaction mechanism be obtained19,20.

Problem	Electrochemical multi-tagging of cysteinyl peptides during microspray mass spectrometry: numerical simulation of consecutive reactions in a microchannel
Method	On-line electrogeneration of mass tags in a microspray emitter is used to quantify the number of cysteine groups in a given peptide.
Method	A finite-element simulation of the multi-step process yields the relative distribution and concentration of tags, untagged and tagged species in the microchannel before the spray event.
Problem	The work focuses on the tagging of cysteine moieties in peptides or proteins by electrogenerated quinone mass probes.
Problem	The main chemical parameters determining the kinetics of the labelling are assessed and discussed considering the microfluidic aspects of the process.
Problem	The control of the tagging extent allows the simultaneous MS analysis of both the unmodified and modified peptide(s).
Result	The number of cysteine groups corresponds to the number of characteristic mass shifts observed from the unmodified peptide.
Conclusion	The present theoretical work establishes the range of optimum conditions for the determination of the number of cysteine groups in peptides containing up to five cysteine groups.
Background	In proteomics, the identities of most proteins represented in sequence databases can be determined by correlating mass spectrometric data with databases.1
Background	To narrow down possible matching candidates, specific searching constraints are needed.
Method	The mass mapping or fingerprinting of peptides derived from proteolytic digestion of a protein provides the basic constraint.2–7
Method	However, a sufficient coverage of the protein (i.e. the determination of a sufficient number of proteolytic peptides from a particular protein) is required to unambiguously identify a protein.
Method	Tandem mass spectrometric (MS/MS) analysis of peptides in mixtures is the most common and restrictive constraint used in addition to mass mapping.8,9
Method	In most cases a collision-induced dissociation (CID) spectrum from a single peptide through electrospray (ESI) MS/MS is then sufficient to conclusively identify a protein.
Method	In this technique, peptides ions are sequentially selected for MS/MS from a mixture.10,11
Method	However, in the case of a complex mixture, the generation of CID spectra for all of the components fails because of time limitations.
Method	Automated analysis is thus routinely programmed to give priority to peptides having the highest ion current.
Method	Therefore, when the mixture is complex, many detected ions with low intensities are not fragmented, thus reducing the dynamic range of the method.
Background	Procedures capable of enhancing the identification procedure are of great value.
Background	The accuracy in the mass determinations is a way of constraining the database search.12,13
Background	The molecular weight of the protein, the isoelectric point of the protein or tryptic peptides,14and the presence of rare amino acids such as cysteine, methionine, or tryptophan in the peptide sequence provide powerful information to enhance the matching.
Background	Counting the cysteine groups in a peptide using the isotopic signature of a specific tag for thiol12,15 or the differential analysis of unlabelled and labelled cysteinyl samples16 can be used to significantly improve protein identification by database searching.
Background	Recently, the electrochemically induced tagging of peptides by probes electrogenerated at the microband electrode of a microspray emitter17 have enabled the on-line counting of cysteine units in peptides18 to improve the processes of identification of model proteins.19
Background	The tagging reaction happens in the microspray emitter which behaves as an electrolytic-flow cell reactor and is quasi-instantaneous.
Background	As a post-column treatment, the technique would provide powerful information on cysteine content, notably for low intensity peptides that would not be selected for MS/MS.
Background	Here, the cysteine content determination relies on the control of the extent of the reaction to ensure that a minimum amount of the unmodified peptide together with a minimum amount of the fully tagged peptide is produced.
Background	The number of cysteine units is determined by mass spectrometry as the number of mass shift(s) from the unmodified peptide.
Background	Because the starting peptide should not be totally converted to guarantee the success of the analysis, understanding the kinetics of the flow reaction is relevant to control the process and to generalize the technique.
Background	To numerically simulate the on-line electrochemical tagging of peptides, multi-stage chemical reactions should be considered in a fluid flow.20,21
Method	Validated by comparison to previous works,22,23 a finite-element convection–diffusion reaction model for an electrochemical (EC) mechanism24 has been further developed for the consecutive tagging by markers electrogenerated at the bottom of a microchannel (2 cm in length).
Problem	Some numerical simulations are carried out for the addition of one to up to five tags (multi-step consecutive reactions) to determine the major chemical and kinetic parameters involved in the microfluidic process.
Problem	The present theoretical work establishes the range of optimal conditions to achieve the counting of cysteine units in peptides, in order to apply the counting/identification technique to complex protein mixtures.
Method	The MS experimental set-up comprised the emitter shown in Fig. 1, which behaves as an electrolytic-flow cell reactor.
Method	The analyte is mixed with the electro-active probe prior to pressure-driven infusion through a capillary tube to the microspray emitter.
Method	The probes studied are 1,4-hydroquinone and methoxycarbonyl-1,4-hydroquinone (HQ in general).
Method	The overall tagging process can proceed via an electrochemical–chemical–electrochemical (ECE) mechanism (Fig. 2) where:
Method	(i) The first electrochemical reaction is the oxidation of HQ in 1,4-benzoquinone or methoxycarbonyl-1,4-benzoquinone (BQ in general).
Method	(ii) The chemical reaction is the 1,4-Michael addition of the thiol functional group of the cysteine of a protein or peptide (P) on the BQ ring that yields the products (PQi), where i represents the number of cysteine groups being tagged.
Method	(iii) The final electrochemical reaction involves the oxidation of the adduct, but under the present flow conditions this second electrochemical oxidation has no time to occur.
Method	It implies that only one thiol addition on the BQ core can happen.
Method	Therefore, a simple EC mechanism will be considered in the present study.
Method	The present model is developed for species containing up to five cysteine groups.
Method	It addresses the convection–diffusion reaction of the eight species i considered here (HQ, BQ, P, PQ1–5 for the hydroquinone, the benzoquinone, the protein or peptide, and the five possible successive degrees of the tagged protein or peptide, respectively).
Method	This transient model (eqn (1)) is applied in a steady state regime to a 2D cross section of the geometry (see section 2.2 and Fig. 1):where ci is the concentration of the species i, Di its diffusion coefficient, v is the fluid velocity vector and Ri is the rate of generation or consumption of i (Fig. 2).
Method	The ∇ symbol is used to simplify the notation.
Method	In the Appendix, the global forms of these local equations are described for each species, using the Galerkin formulation (finite-element method).
Method	The tagging conditions and numerical parameters are given in Table 1 and in the computational section (Flux-Expert® software).
Method	(i) The electrochemical oxidation of HQ is assumed to be limited by the diffusion (fast electrode reaction) and HQ is assumed to be only species oxidised at the electrode.
Method	(ii) The solution is assumed to be sufficiently dilute and isothermal so that the viscosity and the density of the fluid can be considered to be unmodified by concentration or temperature variations.
Method	The diffusion coefficients of the species are also treated as uniform in the entire study domain.
Method	(iii) The channel walls are considered to be smooth and the eventual migration effects due to the applied potential are neglected.
Method	(iv) The width d of the channel is assumed to be much larger than its height 2h so that the velocity gradient in the third dimension can be neglected (2D Cartesian assumption to overcome numerical limitations).
Method	(v) The fluid is assumed to be Newtonian and its velocity is described according to a Poiseuille profile (laminar flow conditions, Re = 0.035).
Method	(vi) The reactivity of cysteine is taken to be equal at every site of the biomolecule (equal to that of the cysteine amino acid) and any other parasite reactions are neglected.
Method	(vii) The numerical simulations of the tagging reaction are considered only in the channel, thereby neglecting the reactions in the Taylor cone or in the ESI plume.
Method	Previous experimental MS mono-tagging of the synthetic peptide AIKCTK carried out with microchannel emitters of variable channel length have clearly shown that the channel contribution is predominant for a channel length of 2 cm with the present flow rate.25
Method	(viii) The flow rate of the fluid is a fixed parameter.
Method	The simulations correspond to a flow rate of 250 nL min−1 (i.e. a mean flow velocity v̄ = 4 × 10−3 m s−1 before scaling).
Method	The parameters playing a key role in the tagging final efficiency are investigated using the finite-element model (see Computational methods).
Method	The multi-tagging process in a laminar flow is evaluated in terms of tagging extent TE (= (Σn [PQn])/[P]0 = ([P]0 – [P])/[P]0, i.e. the consumption of the protein or peptide P).
Method	The addition rate constants are assumed to be equal to those corresponding to the addition of l-cysteine on 1,4-benzoquinone and methoxycarbonyl-1,4-benzoquinone (210 and 5000 M−1 s−1, respectively, in methanol–water–acetic acid 50 : 49 : 1).26,27
Method	For simplification, the diffusion coefficient of all the quinone probes is taken to be equal to 3.5 × 10−10 m2 s−1, which in fact corresponds to the diffusion coefficient of methoxycarbonyl-1,4-hydroquinone in methanol–water–acetic acid 50 : 49 : .128
Method	The mean diffusion coefficient of the target biomolecule P was chosen to be 1 × 10−10 m2 s−1.29
Method	As the target biomolecule concentration is uniform at the inlet, its diffusion coefficient does not affect the final adduct amount (the diffusion coefficient of BQ plays an important role as the BQ generated at the electrode diffuses from the bottom of the channel and along the flow).24
Method	The initial species concentrations are taken in accordance to previous experimental works that showed valuable analyses of proteins and peptides (Table 1).19,26
Method	Simulations were first run for a species containing a single thiol group.
Result	In Fig. 3, a comparison of species distributions along the channel in its central portion (y = h) is proposed for the two probes considered for a single-cysteine target.
Result	The formation of adduct PQ1 becomes efficient with methoxycarbonyl-1,4-hydroquinone (k = 5000 M−1 s−1), inducing subsequent consumption of both the biomolecule and the electrogenerated BQ.
Method	The same kinetic comparison was made for a biomolecule with five cysteine units (each cysteine site is considered to have the same labelling rate constant).
Result	For k = 210 M−1 s−1 (Fig. 4a), the first adduct PQ1 is the only species produced in a reasonable amount.
Result	The production is higher than in the case of a single-cysteine target (15.3 μM instead of 5.0 μM at the outlet of the channel) since here it possesses five cysteine groups.
Result	In fact, the probability for the probe to react with a cysteine in a target possessing five cysteine groups is five-fold higher than the probability to react with cysteine in a single-cysteine target.
Result	The first step of the consecutive tagging reactions presents an apparent rate constant k1 = 5k since the rate law is here formulated as a function of the biomolecule concentration [P] (Fig. 2).
Result	Therefore, the reaction rate is multiplied as shown below.Part of the first adduct PQ1 reacts with BQ to give the successive adducts, the production of which is limited to PQ2 for the present k value.
Result	For k = 5000 M−1 s−1 (Fig. 4b), almost all of the BQ generated at the electrode is consumed at the end of the channel.
Result	The production of all adducts is enhanced, apart from the first, whose concentration decreased beyond a distance of 5 mm from the electrode (i.e. 1.25 s of reaction) to feed the following additions.
Result	The second adduct PQ2 is the most favoured species at the end of the channel (15 μM).
Result	The fifth adduct PQ5 is also observable in small amounts.
Method	Simulations with a rate constant of k = 20 000 M−1 s−1 were performed as shown in Fig. 4c.
Result	The reaction is quite fast and the thermodynamic equilibrium is reached in about 2.5 s (i.e. 1 cm from the electrode).
Result	The electrogenerated BQ, which is correlated to the HQ initial concentration, is in deficit with respect to cysteine units.
Conclusion	It implies that the species P, PQ1, PQ2, PQ3, PQ4 and PQ5 remain unchanged for x > 1 cm (no more BQ to react).
Conclusion	This result is not only the effect of the addition rate constant but also a consequence of the multi-tagging that amplifies this tendency.
Result	Fig. 5 reports the influence of the HQ initial concentration on the TE (= (Σn [PQn])/[P]0 = ([P]0 – [P])/[P]0) of a species containing five cysteine units.
Result	When the BQ is in excess ([HQ]0 ≥ 6 mM), a total conversion of P is obtained for k values above 2500 M−1 s−1.
Result	On the other hand, for initial HQ concentrations of 1 and 2.5 mM, the electrochemically-produced BQ is in deficit with respect to the cysteine moieties and, for high k values, BQ is found to be totally consumed before the end of the channel when the protein is still present (see Fig. 4c).
Conclusion	The high kinetics limits the consumption of P because the following steps consume BQ rapidly.
Problem	The initial concentration of HQ plays a key role in the final tagging degree since it controls the production of the BQ markers (in the present assumption of diffusion control of the current).
Result	In Fig. 6a and b, the evolution of the species at the end of the channel is given according to [HQ]0 for biomolecules containing three and five cysteine groups, respectively.
Result	As expected, the higher the [HQ]0, the higher the consumption of P and the production of the completely tagged species (i.e. PQ3 and PQ5 for peptides containing three and five cysteine groups, respectively).
Method	In the previous section, a target with five cysteine groups was used for emphasizing kinetics and a better understanding of the multi-stage process.
Method	A peptide with three cysteine groups serves as a reference since such peptides are more probable in proteomic analysis.
Method	To enable the MS cysteine counting in peptides in future experiments, we have decided to impose the following criteria for the simulation: both the proportion of P (= 100 × [P]/[P]0) and of the completely tagged species PQn (= 100 × [PQn]/[P]0) should be above 10% in order to be detectable by MS.
Result	In Fig. 6, the corresponding working domains mark these conditions.
Result	For a three cysteine peptide (Fig. 6a) the two conditions are compatible (1.755 mM < [HQ]0 < 2.275 mM), but the two working domains do not intersect for a five cysteine peptide (Fig. 6b).
Problem	The initial concentration of HQ drives the tagging rate and thereby the proportion of the species at the end of the channel.
Problem	When the [HQ]0 is too high, there is not enough P left and when it is too low, there is not enough PQn produced.
Result	As shown in Fig. 7, tagging reaction times t in the channel could thus be chosen to make the two conditions expressed above compatible.
Result	The 10% working conditions are represented in Fig. 7a for the three cysteine peptide.
Result	The domain shows that high concentrations of HQ imply working over small times to ensure that P is not totally consumed.
Result	Nevertheless, a wide range of concentrations is then compatible with these short times: 0.6 s of reaction time allows working between 10 and 20 mM of HQ.
Result	When working with a longer reaction time, the concentration possibilities are narrower but the analysis can be done at many times (for instance, the analysis is possible from 2 to more than 5 s for an initial concentration of 2 mM).
Conclusion	In other words, when the apparent kinetics become slower, the fixed conditions are satisfied for wider time ranges (the scale is widespread due to the second order kinetic law).
Result	For the five-stage tagging (Fig. 7b), the conditions are almost never compatible except at high concentrations, and for very restrictive time ranges (for [HQ]0 = 25 mM, the reaction time must be fixed at 0.3 s).
Result	When the criteria level is reduced to 5%, a much wider working domain appears for the five-stage reaction (Fig. 7c).
Conclusion	The technique appears applicable to peptides containing five or less cysteine groups since the co-existence of P and PQn is no more likely when more cysteine groups are present as BQ is stocked in the intermediate species.
Conclusion	For successful cysteine counting, the initial concentration of P is also a key feature to consider, all the more so as [P]0 is not really controlled by the manipulator.
Conclusion	Indeed, in proteomic analysis, the amounts of tryptic peptides derive from the protein concentrations, which are quite variable from one to another in a complex mixture.
Result	In the simulated data of Fig. 8, for a given reaction time t = 5 s (i.e. Lch = 2 cm), concentration [P]0 varies from 0.1 to 75 μM.
Result	The initial concentrations [HQ]0 that provide 10% of P and PQ3 according to each initial concentration [P]0 are reported.
Result	Between the two curves, the hatched domain indicates that both conditions are satisfied.
Result	The reference point (◆) shows that [HQ]0 = 2.5 mM, which was used in the previous section, provides good analysis of three-cysteine peptides from 55 to 100 μM.
Result	Defining the ratio Δ[HQ]0/[HQ]0 for the 10% working domain, 0.51 and 0.31 are obtained for [P]0 = 0.l and 75 μM, respectively, showing that the working interval slightly decreases with the concentration.
Conclusion	The nature of the curve proves that the ratio [HQ]0/[P]0 can not be used as a term to predict the tagging extent in general.
Conclusion	This is further confirmed by several numerical studies at different concentrations while keeping the ratio [HQ]0/[P]0 constant (see supplementary information Fig. S1).
Method	The finite-element formulation was generated on the numerical software Flux-Expert® (Astek Rhône-Alpes, Grenoble, France), in a 2-D Cartesian form.
Method	It was operated on a Dell PC, 2 Gb RAM (Red Hat Linux).
Method	The mesh size adopted for the channel was δ = 5 μm and it was reduced (i.e. to 0.4 μm) at the electrode extremities in order to take into account the edge effects.
Method	The resulting mesh Péclet number PS = v̄δ/D was found to be 50 and 14 for the P and the BQ respectively.
Result	The error induced by a 7 μm channel mesh (compared to a 4 μm channel) was checked and found to be 0.01 and 0.05% for BQ and P respectively at the end of the channel (see Fig. S2 in the ESI).
Result	It confirms the mesh Péclet number limit of 100 determined in the literature.30
Result	The total mesh number is 30 000, leading to 240 000 degrees of freedom for the eight unknowns in the five-tagging case.
Result	The conservation of species flux (BQ and P) was verified.
Method	Because of the 2 cm channel experimental length, scaling was necessary to have an acceptable mesh Péclet number while keeping a meshing grid and matrix size that could be numerically treated.
Method	Then, a 0.5 cm long geometry was used but the channel height (2h) and the electrode length were kept the same (the electrode length remains quasi-negligible compared to channel length, i.e. the ratio is 1 : 50 instead of 1 : 200 for the experimental conditions).
Method	The flow rate was divided by four to ensure the same residence time in the channel and the same transversal diffusion time.
Method	The incoming HQ concentration was adapted to have the same flux ratio between the incoming protein or peptide P and the BQ generated at the electrode.
Method	With the Levich equation,31,32 one can express a proportionality relationship between the flux rate of produced BQ at the electrode NBQ and the flow rate FV = v̄2hd (where v̄ is the mean flow velocity, 2h and d are the height and width of the channel)NBQ ∝ [HQ]0FV1/3From Relation 1, if the flow rate is divided by four, the flux of BQ is divided by 41/3 = 1.6.
Result	It has been checked by simulation that the ratio of flux of BQ at the electrode for the normal case (v̄ = 4 × 10−3 m s−1) over the scaling by 4 (v̄ = 1 × 10−3 m s−1) is 1.589 (≈1.6).
Method	Moreover, the flux of the protein NP coming into the channel is given byNP = [P]0FVWhatever the flow rate scaling, the ratio of these fluxes must be conservedTo conserve the ratio NBQ/NP if the flow rate is multiplied by 4, the initial concentration [HQ]0 must be multiplied by 42/3.
Method	The mean concentration [BQ] remains unchanged by this operation asThe scaling was fully validated by the numerical comparisons of the concentration of BQ and PQ3 along the channel for a scaling by 2 (channel length of 10 mm) and 4 (channel length of 5 mm), which appear in Figs. S3 and S4 in the ESI.
Method	Numerical simulation studies were pursued with a scaling of 4.
Conclusion	The influence of the tagging rate constant as well as the impact of the probe and target concentrations have been simulated for a single and a five-step tagging reaction in a microchannel.
Result	The finite-element model has shown how strongly the tagging efficiency derives from the number of consecutive tagging reactions (i.e. the number of cysteine moieties in the protein or peptide determining the apparent kinetics of each consecutive reaction).
Method	The non-suppression of the unmodified molecule signal is essential to guarantee the success of the on-line MS counting of cysteine moieties.
Result	On the other hand, the residence time and the probe concentration should be sufficient to achieve all the tagging degrees.
Conclusion	Numerical simulations have been used to determine the optimal conditions for this.
Conclusion	It has been shown that the cysteine counting is possible for up to five units.
Conclusion	When the molecule possesses more cysteine residues, the co-existence of both the untagged and fully tagged molecule is no more likely whatever the residence time.
Conclusion	To overcome this, the introduction of a recognition signal could be added to the tag.
Conclusion	Some mass tags presenting characteristic isotopic patterns could thus be employed.

Problem	Metalloglycomics: a new perspective upon competitive metal–carbohydrate binding using EPR spectroscopy
Conclusion	Ternary complexes formed between calcium, the oxochromium(v) ion and N-acetylneuraminic (sialic) acid (naH6) of the form, Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6, have electronic structures and equilibrium distributions distinct from the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 analogues, as illustrated by electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy.
Background	Sialic acids are a family of carbohydrates ubiquitous throughout the animal kingdom that are structurally defined as 9-membered carbon chains with an α-keto acid head group.1
Method	The most abundant sialic acid in humans is N-acetylneuraminic acid (naH6; Scheme 1) which occurs predominantly as the terminal residue of protein- and lipid-based cell-surface glycoconjugates.1
Background	Structural features of naH6 include a tert-2-hydroxycarboxylate ‘head’ group, which is deprotonated at physiological pH (pKa ∼ 2.6), and a glycerol ‘tail’.
Background	The 2′-OH α-glycoside link from naH6 to the penultimate glycoconjugate residue orients the glycerol tail towards the extracellular milieu inviting interactions with biometals.
Method	The interaction between Ca(ii) and naH6 has been investigated previously;2 the structure of a binary (1 : 1) complex determined from 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy (Scheme 1) proposes Ca(ii) binds to naH6 (as the free acid, where β : α ∼ 92 : 8) via the carboxylate O1, OR, O7 and O8 groups.3
Method	More recently, both the tert-2-hydroxycarboxylate ‘head’ group of naH6 (O1,O2) in addition to the glycerol ‘tail’ (O7,O8,O9) have been established as viable chelates of select transition metal ions using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy,4 NMR spectroscopy,5 or potentiometry;6 EPR spectroscopy in particular continues to emerge as a powerful tool in studying metal–bioligand speciation.4,7
Result	Strong EPR signals from solutions of Cr(vi) and glutathione (GSH) in the presence of excess naH6 (Fig. 1; black) are attributed to a distribution of five-coordinate oxoCr(v)–naH6 complexes (d1) in which two naH6 units chelate the oxoCr(v) ion ([naH6] > [oxoCr(v)]) via combinations of the O1,O2, O7,O8 or O8,O9 groups.4
Result	The multiplicity of the central xCr (x = 50, 52, 54; I = 0) signal (Fig. 1; RHS) conveys the number (n) of protons (I = ½; 2nI + 1) in the second coordination sphere that perturb the Cr(v) redox (dxy) orbital (e.g.; n = 0, bis-O1,O2 singlet; n = 4, bis-O7,O8 quintet; n = 6, bis-O8,O9 septet).4
Result	There is a pH dependence of the distribution of oxoCr(v)–naH6 species whereby isomers of the O1,O2-coordinated species (giso = 1.9785; 1.9792) dominate under acidic conditions (Fig. 1a) and the series of O7,O8- and O8,O9-coordinated species (giso ∼ 1.9800) dominate at alkaline pH values (Fig. 1c, d).4
Conclusion	This work shows that in the presence of excess Ca(ii) ([Ca(ii)] : [naH6] = 10) there is significant modulation to the Cr(v) EPR signals (Fig. 1; purple) which suggests the formation of ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 complexes that have electronic structures (as indicated by variations in giso values and 1H aiso values) distinct from the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 analogues. Also, the pH-dependent equilibrium distribution of oxoCr(v)–naH6 species clearly differs in the presence of Ca(ii); the appearance of complex multiplets at lower pH values in the ternary system, relative to the binary system (Fig. 1b), is likely due to the Ca(ii)-induced lowering of the hydroxyl pKa values of naH6, thereby increasing the relative concentration of ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6(diolato) species.
Method	These observations were investigated using EPR simulation procedures. The parent Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 signals (at pH values ≥ 4.49) simulated (correlation > 0.998) as comprising two singlets, two quartets, two septets (Table 1) and up to five additional high-field singlets (present in very low (<3.5%) concentrations at pH values ≥ 7.14).
Background	Noteworthy differences between the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 and ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 systems are as follows.
Result	First, the presence of excess Ca(ii) appears to mitigate against the formation of oxoCr(v)–naH6 species involving coordination via the O7,O8-diolato group, since (unlike the binary system) the simplest simulation model for the Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 system did not require the inclusion of a triplet, a quintet or a sextet to model the ternary analogues of [CrO(O1,O2-naH4)(O7,O8-naH3)]2− (n = 2), [CrO(O7,O8-naH3)2]3− (n = 4) or [CrO(O7,O8-naH3)(O8,O9-naH3)]3− (n = 5), respectively.
Result	Second, an excellent fit between the experimental and simulated spectra for the Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 system was obtained with the inclusion of two isomers each of the singlet, quartet and septet (Table 1).
Result	Individual EPR spectra for each species present in the Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 equilibrium solution at pH = 4.49 are shown in Fig. 2 (RHS) aligned with the spectra from the related binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 species (LHS) at pH = 4.37.
Result	This spectral deconvolution highlights the marked differences in the relative concentrations of related species between the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 and ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 systems (where the absence of a species is represented by a dotted line).
Result	The sum of the component spectra (purple) in both the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 (pH = 4.37) and ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 (pH = 4.49) systems closely maps onto the experimental (black) spectrum (Fig. 2; lower trace).
Result	In the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 system, while the presence of two singlets (Fig. 1a) is evident (ascribed to geometrical isomers of [CrO(O1,O2-naH4)]− in which donor atoms are juxtaposed about the oxoCr(v) trigonal bipyramid),4,9 only one isomer is observed (as determined by the limits of EPR simulation) for the remaining linkage isomers.
Result	Third, the spectral fit in the Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 system required the inclusion of non-uniform 1H aiso values (∼0.59 G, 0.80 G, 0.96 G) for second coordination sphere protons within a single species (Table 1).
Result	This is distinct from the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 system, where the conformational flexibility of the glycerol tail of naH6 confers magnetic equivalence upon these protons (1H aiso ∼ 0.75 G).
Conclusion	These differences suggest that the interaction between Ca(ii) and naH6, as modelled from NMR spectroscopic data (O1, OR, O7, O8),3 restricts the conformational flexibility of the glycerol tail, effectively acting as an ‘ionic lock’.
Method	The ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 species (two geometrical isomers each) are assigned (Table 1) as {Ca2[CrO(O1,O2-naH4)2]}3+ (CaI (a,b)), {Ca2[CrO(O1,O2-naH4)(O8,O9-naH3)]}2+ (CaIII (a,b); Scheme 2) and {Ca2[CrO(O8,O9-naH3)2]}+ (CaVI (a,b); Scheme 2).
Result	The increase in the strength of the sets of donor atoms (bis-hydroxycarboxylate < hydroxycarboxylate-diolato < bis-diolato) correlates with the increase in the giso values for CaI (a,b), CaIII (a,b) and CaVI (a,b), respectively, which supports the species assignment, together with the signal multiplicities (Table 1).
Background	The stoichiometry of the ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 complexes (2 : 1 : 2) is based upon the known Ca(ii) : naH6 stoichiometry (1 : 1) determined from NMR experiments (even where [Ca(ii)] > [naH6]),2,3 and from studies of oxoCr(v)–bioligand systems that show the preferential formation of bis-chelate species (relative to mono-chelate species) where [ligand] : [Cr(v)] ≥ 2..54,9
Result	The absence of O7,O8-coordinated oxoCr(v)–naH6 species in the ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 system suggests that the O7 group of naH6 has a stronger affinity toward Ca(ii) than toward the oxoCr(v) ion.
Result	Conversely, based upon the presence of O8,O9-coordinated Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 species, the O8 group of naH6 has an affinity toward the oxoCr(v) ion (and may be simultaneously binding Ca(ii)).
Conclusion	The magnetic inequivalence of the protons in the second coordination sphere of ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 complexes (Fig. 2; Table 1) is also explained by the ‘ionic lock’ mechanism, since the {Ca(ii)–naH5}+ structure places H8, H9 and H9′ in unique magnetic environments.3
Background	These environments evidently increase the extent of orbital overlap between the second coordination sphere protons and the dxy oxoCr(v) orbital, as measured by the increased 1H aiso values of the Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 complexes, relative to the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 analogues.
Result	Also, there are shifts in giso values for related species within the binary oxoCr(v)–naH6 and ternary Ca(ii)–oxoCr(v)–naH6 systems (Fig. 1).
Result	The giso values of the species involving tert-2-hydroxycarboxylate coordination ([CrO(O1,O2-naH4)2]− or {Ca2[CrO(O1,O2-naH4)2]}3+ in the binary or ternary system, respectively) move to higher field (lower giso) in the presence of Ca(ii), while the giso values of diolato coordinated species ([CrO(O8,O9-naH3)2]3− or {Ca2[CrO(O8,O9-naH3)2]}+ in the binary or ternary system, respectively) move to lower field (higher giso) in the presence of Ca(ii).
Result	This latter trend is consistent with [CrO(glycerol(2−))2]− (giso = 1.9800), where in the presence of Ca(ii), giso = 1.9803.
Conclusion	This suggests that in the case of oxoCr(v)–diolato complexes, the presence of Ca(ii) modifies the polarizability of the donor oxygen atom (increases the ‘hardness’), which correlates with an increase in the giso value.
Conclusion	No change in giso value is observed for well characterised tert-2-hydroxycarboxylate oxoCr(v) complexes ([CrO(hmba(2−))2]− (hmba(2−) = 2-hydroxy-2-methylbutanoato), giso = 1.9784) in the presence of Ca(ii), which indicates a poor affinity of Ca(ii) towards an isolated hydroxycarboxylate group and suggests that the polyfunctionality of naH6 is an important determinant of Ca(ii) binding.
Background	This is an elegant illustration of the use of EPR spectroscopy in studying competitive metal–carbohydrate binding (termed here ‘metalloglycomics’) that may have wide ranging implications in understanding transition metal–bioligand speciation in Ca(ii)-rich (and/or Mg(ii)) matrices that model the biological milieu.
Background	The author acknowledges a Sesqui New Staff Support grant and access to the EPR spectroscopy facility at the University of Sydney.

Problem	Measurements of molecular fragment alignment and orientation in the UV photodissociation of NO2 and O3
Problem	REMPI-TOF studies of the UV photodissociation of NO2 and O3 at 320 nm and 270 nm respectively have allowed both the orientation and alignment parameters of the molecular photofragments to be determined.
Result	The orientation parameter, β20(21), for the NO(X2Π, v = 0) fragment is found to be essentially the same for the three quantum states, N = 29, 30 and 40 with a value of 0.24 ± 0.04 (2σ), as probed via (1 + 1′) REMPI, on the A2Σ+ (v = 0) ← X2ΠΩ (v = 0) transition.The O2 (a 1Δgv = 0 J = 20) fragment shows a markedly larger orientation parameter, for example β20(21) = 0.55 ± 0.04, measured on the S(20) transition.
Problem	These orientation parameters and the accompanying alignment parameters which describe the fragments' angular momentum polarisation have been used to confirm spectral assignments within the highly perturbed (2 + 1) d 1Πg(v = 2) ←← a 1Δg (v = 0) REMPI spectrum of O2.
Background	Angular momentum polarisation of both atomic and molecular photofragments is a direct consequence of the nature of the potential energy surface upon which the bond cleavage occurs, and experimental studies of photodissociation have increasingly focused on measuring the distributions of photofragment angular momentum vectors J relative to other vector quantities such as the fragment relative velocity and the parent transition moment.1–5
Background	These distributions of angular momentum are characterised by a set of moments, βKQ(k1k2), averaged over the photofragment ensemble,6 and can be divided into two classes, namely those corresponding to the alignment and to the orientation of J (those of even and odd rank k2 respectively).
Method	The former can be probed with linearly polarised light, and have been the subject of many investigations into the alignment of product angular momentum with respect to a reference axis.1–5
Background	An example is in the moment β00(22) which relates the products' velocity v and angular momentum J and is equal to the expectation value of the second order Legendre polynomial, 〈P2(cosα)〉, where α is the angle between the vectors.
Method	However, such measurements give us no insight into the sense of this angular momentum.
Background	For example, they may inform us that a molecular photofragment is rotating in the xz-plane with its velocity related to that plane, say in the positive x direction, but we cannot tell if the angular momentum vector is pointing in the positive or negative y direction: we can measure alignment but not orientation.
Method	The use of circularly polarised light overcomes this difficulty and allows orientation parameters to be measured.
Background	Such experiments on the orientation of molecular fragments7–12 are far less numerous than their alignment counterparts, yet the information they yield is essential for a full understanding of the state or states involved in the photodissociation.
Problem	In the work presented here we first employ both linearly and circularly polarised light to probe, via (1 + 1′) resonance enhanced multiphoton ionisation (REMPI), the NO photofragment from NO2 photolysis at 320 nm.
Problem	We demonstrate the applicability of time of flight (TOF) spectrometry to extract alignment and orientation parameters on this test system, and compare our orientation results with those previously obtained by Brouard et al8. using laser induced fluorescence (LIF), and Nesterov and Cline9 using ion imaging.
Problem	Secondly, we apply the same method to measure alignment and orientation parameters for the O2(a 1Δgv = 0 J = 20) fragment from the 270 nm photolysis of ozone.
Result	We use several (2 + 1) REMPI transitions which involve excitation of the two photon d 1Πg(v = 2) ←← a 1Δg (v = 0) transition,13 and show that by measurement of both alignment and orientation we can confirm the assignments in the highly perturbed rotationally resolved spectrum: spectroscopy through dynamics.
Method	For the photolysis of NO2, pulsed radiation at 320 nm was provided by the frequency doubled output of a Nd:YAG pumped tuneable dye laser [Spectra Physics GCR-200 + LAS LDL 2051], while the counter-propagating pulsed probe radiation around 225 nm was from the frequency doubled output of a XeCl excimer pumped dye laser [Lambda Physik EMG 101 MSC + Lambda Physik FL2002], exciting individual rotational lines of the NO A 2Σ+ (v = 0) ← X2ΠΩ (v = 0) band.
Method	The beams were focussed to overlap in the source region of a modified Wiley McLaren TOF mass-spectrometer, into which a room temperature sample of NO2, at a backing pressure of around 120 Torr, was injected via a pulsed valve.
Method	The rotational temperature of the molecular beam was measured to be 150 ± 10 K from the REMPI spectrum of NO expanded through the nozzle under the same conditions.
Method	The laser pulses were overlapped temporally as well as spatially to allow a (1 + 1′) REMPI detection scheme whereby both the photolysis and ionising radiation were provided by the 320 nm wavelength light.
Method	The probe light at 226 nm was kept at low intensities to avoid saturation of the strong one-photon resonant transition,14,15 and the absence of saturation was confirmed by the invariance of the TOF profiles with laser intensity.
Method	For the studies on ozone the excimer pumped system was used as the 270 nm photolysis laser, with the YAG pumped system providing the photons near 320 nm for the (2 + 1) REMPI of the O2 a 1Δg (v = 0) product.
Method	Ozone was introduced through the pulsed valve into the mass spectrometer from a room temperature bulb containing approximately 100 Torr of a 1∶1 mixture of ozone and O2.
Method	The space-focussed ions were detected by the TOF system following the REMPI pulse as previously described.16
Method	The alignment moments were extracted using linearly polarised pump and probe sources.
Method	The polarisation of one laser was fixed with its electric vector at a predetermined angle to the TOF axis, using a polarizing crystal.
Method	The counter-propagating second laser beam was switched between two values of this angle, θ, normally 0 and 90° using a photoelastic modulator [Hinds Instruments Inc. PEM-90].
Method	The extraction of the orientation parameters required a circularly polarised probe beam, which was again provided by the photoelastic modulator.
Method	Here the helicity of the probe beam was switched, with the electric vector of the photolysis beam held at 45° to the TOF axis.
Method	Weak single-laser signals were subtracted from the two-laser signal, and all profiles were power normalised by monitoring the intensity of back reflections of the uv light.
Result	For extraction of the alignment moments, the average of around 1000 time of flight profiles per geometry was found to give a sufficient signal-to-noise ratio.
Result	For the photolysis of NO2 the comparatively small differences between the profiles generated with switched left and right circularly polarised light meant that averages of around 15 000 profiles were required for experiments to determine the orientation moment.
Conclusion	The greater effect on the time of flight profile of the orientation parameter in a (2 + 1) REMPI process compared to that for a (1 + 1′) scheme meant that it was unnecessary to average more than 2000 profiles to extract moments in the ozone experiments.
Method	The intensity and shape of the time of flight profile depends upon both geometric parameters (such as the photolysis and probe lasers' polarisations relative to the time of flight axis and the spectroscopic transition being used) and dynamical parameters (the distributions of the vectors μ, the parent molecule transition moment, v, the fragments' relative velocity and J, the diatomic angular momentum).
Method	The profile may be described by the expression: where gi are functions of geometric parameters (relative directions of the laser beams and TOF axis), line strength factors (we refer to the latter as qi) and moments, βKQ(k1k2), Pi(x) are ith order Legendre polynomials, and the variable x = vz/v0, where vz is the projection of the fragment velocity along the TOF axis, and v0 its speed.
Method	The index i takes values that are determined by the polarisations of the pump and probe lasers and the number of photons used in the REMPI process.
Method	The line strength factors, qi, are calculated using the formalism derived by Kummel, Sitz and Zare (KSZ).17
Method	The values that we seek are βKQ(k1k2), the moments of the distribution, ie the ensemble averaged values of the distributions of the vector quantities.
Background	The most important of the bipolar moments of even rank are β00(22), β20(20) and β20(02), describing the v–J, μ–v and μ–J pair correlations respectively, and these can be found by analysing the TOF lineshapes taken with judicious choices of angles of the electric vectors of the linearly polarised photolysis and REMPI lasers relative to the TOF axis.18–20
Background	There are also higher order moments which affect the shape of the time of flight profile, such as β20(22) which represents the triple vector correlation between μ, v and J, and their extraction and significance is discussed later.
Result	Maximum sensitivity to the orientation moment is obtained by photolysing with linearly polarised light at an angle of 45° to the TOF axis and taking the difference between TOF profiles with left and right circularly polarised probe radiation.
Method	We give explicitly our expression for Δg(x), the difference between left and right circularly polarised signals as a function of the parameter x:Δg(x) can be quantitatively related to the distribution of ion arrival times, our experimental observations.
Result	We note that Δg(x) is for the difference of normalised arrival times: in practice we find that the time integrated left and right circularly polarised signals are equal to within experimental error (4%), giving confidence in the successful operation of the photoelastic modulator.
Method	Our expression for Δg(x) derived from the KSZ formalism17 is identical to that derived by Cline et al.19
Method	In particular we are able to obtain the orientation moment β20(21), which describes the preferred sense of rotation of the diatomic fragment and is defined as β20(21) = −2〈sin θt cos θt sin θr sin ϕr〉 where (θt,ϕt) and (θr,ϕr) are the polar angles which define the photofragment velocity and angular momentum vectors respectively in the body fixed frame.6,8,9
Method	In this frame the fragment recoil velocity lies in the xz plane and the z axis is parallel to the transition dipole moment μ.
Method	Thus, in the case where θt and θr are less than 90°, a positive value for β20(21) indicates that fragments' angular momentum is oriented preferentially along the −y direction.
Result	Again higher order odd rank moments appear in eqn. (2), and we discuss their influence later.
Problem	First, we present data on the nascent NO fragment from the photodissociation of NO2 at 320 nm recorded using (1 + 1′) REMPI via the A state of NO.
Problem	Although our emphasis is on the orientation of the NO fragment we discuss first the alignment parameters obtained for photolysis at 320 nm with the linearly polarised probe beam tuned to the P22 + Q12(N = 40) transition in the A 2Σ+ (v = 0) ← X 2Π3/2 (v = 0) band.
Result	Table 1 shows the results.
Result	For prompt dissociation of a non-rotating and non-vibrating NO2 molecule, where the transition moment μ for the 2B2–2A1 band lies in the molecular plane parallel to the line joining the two oxygen atoms, we would expect J to be perpendicular to both μ and v, i.e. the correlations with J to be close to their perpendicular limits, and this is seen to be the case in Table 1.
Problem	If the ground state geometry of NO2 is preserved in the promptly dissociating excited state we expect the μ–v correlation β20(20) = 0.88.
Background	Many previous studies have measured β20(20), and have shown that its value is reduced from this limit for the rotating molecule, and depends upon fragment speed (and thus dissociation wavelength).21
Background	In LIF experiments probing NO (v = 0, N = 29) from a thermal sample of NO2 Brouard et al8. found β20(20) = 0.61 ± 0.02 at a photolysis wavelength of 308 nm, whilst earlier experiments by Baker et al. in this group reported β20(20) = 0.26 ± 0.14 for photolysis at 355 nm, where the fragment speed is approximately halved.21
Background	Baker et al. also measured the NO (v = 0, N = 15) fragment and found that β20(20) increased to 0.41 ± 0.06, reflecting the greater energy available for product translation.21
Background	When the same N = 15 line was probed in photolysis of a jet cooled (10 K) NO2 sample, β20(20) increased to 0.61 ± 0.15,21 the same value as that reported by Hradil et al. in ion imaging experiments carried out on a 15 K sample.22
Background	These authors noted that their result, the average over several rotational states, was substantially larger than values previously measured23–25 for samples close to room temperature.
Result	The present value of 0.64 ± 0.03 for N = 40 at a photolysis wavelength of 320 nm and a sample temperature of 150 K is consistent with previous observations.
Background	There are fewer previous measurements of other pair correlations.
Result	Our value of β00(22) = −0.42 ± 0.06 is in keeping with previously published results which show v and J to be dominantly perpendicular8,21,25 The value of β20(02) = −0.30 ± 0.05 is within experimental error the same as that of Brouard et al. (−0.23 ± 0.02) for the same line at 308 nm,8 but as we would again expect the μ–J correlation to be dependent upon fragment translational energy and parent internal energy, the agreement may be fortuitously dependent upon the cancelling of these two effects in the two studies (room temperature sample, 308 nm photolysis and probing N = 29 at room temperature8 compared with 320 nm photolysis and probing N = 40 at 150 K for the present data).
Result	We finally note the higher moments in Table 1.
Method	β20(22), the triple vector correlation, was found simultaneously with β00(22)from the sum and difference of profiles taken with magic angle photolysis and switching the 226 nm beam between θ = 0 and 90°.
Method	For the β20(42) term (which describes a higher order correlation between μ, v and J), profiles were analysed with the photolysis laser polarised parallel to the TOF axis and with θ = 0 and 90°: these show an increased sensitivity to this moment.
Result	The results are consistent with the pair correlation values of Table 1 and these, together with the pair correlations discussed above serve to give confidence in the analysis procedures employed in these TOF studies.
Problem	We now describe the results of experiments with circularly polarised probe radiation to determine the orientation moment β20(21).
Problem	Three lines were chosen for study, namely the P22 + Q12(N = 40) line discussed above, together with the R11 + Q21 (N = 30) and P11 (N = 29) features.
Result	In Figs 1a and 1b we show the sum and difference profiles for left and right circularly polarised 226 nm probe radiation for the R11 + Q21 (N = 30) and P11 (N = 29) lines, with the 320 nm photolysis laser polarisation at 45° to the TOF axis.
Result	Sums and differences are shown to give an idea of the magnitude of the difference between the signals with the two circular polarisations, of the order of 5% at the line centres.
Result	The best fits to the difference profiles are shown, and yield β20(21) = 0.26 ± 0.04 and 0.22 ± 0.04 for N = 30 and 29 respectively.
Result	For the P22 + Q12(N = 40) transition we find β20(21) = 0.25 ± 0.04.
Result	We note that in this (1 + 1′) REMPI process the difference profiles are expected to be equal in magnitude but opposite in sign for R and P branches, and this is observed in Fig. 1a and 1b.
Background	Q branches are insensitive to the fragment helicity at these high values of N, and hence the contribution of the Q21 and Q12 sub-bands to the N = 30 and N = 40 lines does not affect the difference profiles providing the R or P branch contribution is appropriately normalised.9,19
Result	The difference profiles should be zero for the geometries where the photolysis beam electric vector is at 0° or 90° to the TOF axis,9,26 and an example confirming this is shown in Fig. 1c for the P22 + Q12 (N = 40) transition and θ = 90°.
Background	The contributions of the higher order β20(23) and β20(43)terms to the difference profile were neglected in our analysis, as the value of q3 in eqn. (2) is zero for a (1 + 1′) REMPI process when the ionisation efficiency is assumed to be independent of fragment alignment.4
Result	We find the β20(21) moment to be insensitive to the three quantum states probed, with a state averaged value of 0.24 ± 0.04.
Background	This is in excellent agreement with the results of ion imaging studies by Nesterov et al9. at 355 nm in which the NO2 sample was cooled in a molecular beam, (β20(21) = 0.2 for levels probed with the P11 (N = 36) and R21 (N = 21) lines) and with the LIF studies by Brouard et al. at 308 nm8 which employed a room temperature sample and measured β20(21) = 0.22 ± 0.04 for the same P11 (N = 29) transition as measured here.
Conclusion	It appears that the orientation is little affected by parent angular momentum, as the three studies used markedly different NO2 rotational temperatures.
Background	We note that in the work by Cline the A state of NO was ionised using a third colour whereas in this work, we use the photolysis laser to ionise NO from the intermediate A state.
Result	Saturation of the first excitation step would lead to an apparently reduced magnitude of the moments measured, but the good agreement between our values of β20(21) and the alignment moments compared with those of previous work again suggests that we avoid saturation.
Conclusion	The results are qualitatively in accord with the expectation that the impulse given by the departing O atom acts on the N end of NO, causing rotation with J pointing in the −y direction8,9.
Problem	Having established the consistency of the results obtained from our experimental method with those measured previously, we now turn to the photolysis of ozone.
Result	At a photolysis wavelength of 270 nm the dominant dissociation channel produces O2 in the low lying first excited state, a 1Δg,27,28 and Fig. 2 shows a section of the (2 + 1) d 1Πg(v = 2) ←← a 1Δg (v = 0) REMPI spectrum of nascent O2 around 320 nm, with assignments from the recent analysis of Morrill et al.13
Background	The d 1Πg(v = 2) upper level is perturbed by curve crossings with the nearby II 1Πg valence state,13 and this results in a highly irregular band structure, with branches split into a number of spectrally distinct sections.
Result	The S and R branches shown in Fig. 2 however have J values around 20 which are highly populated in the photolysis of ozone at 270 nm,29 and the lines in the nascent spectrum are not markedly overlapped by other transitions.
Background	Photodissociation at 270 nm in the Hartley band proceeds by two spin allowed routes forming O2(a 1Δg) + O(1D) and O2(X 3Σg−) + O(3P) in the ratio 0.9∶0.1 respectively.27–29
Background	The curve crossing on the excited state potential that leads to formation of the X 3Σg− state of O2 is allowed only for odd J states.
Background	This results in a selective depletion of species with odd J in the rotational distribution of the O2(a 1Δg) product, a result first demonstrated in the CARS experiments of Valentini and co-workers.29,30
Result	Although populations are difficult to extract from the highly perturbed REMPI spectra, the data of Fig. 2 do show an intensity alternation, with depletion of the intensities of lines with odd J. For example, in Fig. 2 the intensity of the S(19) line is considerably below that of the neighbouring S(20) and S(18) lines, whereas for a REMPI spectrum taken under conditions where the population alternation is absent (for example, Fig. 6 of ref. 13) the S(19) intensity is higher than those of its neighbours.
Result	A similar effect is seen in the R and in the (more congested) O branch of Fig. 2.
Method	We focus first on the two (2 + 1) REMPI transitions shown in Fig. 2 at the probe laser wavelengths of 320.499 nm and 320.821 nm.
Method	Our wavelength scale for the transitions is in accord with the energies given by Morrill et al13. to within the precision of our laser wavelength step size (0.002 nm).
Result	The lines have been assigned as S(20) and R(20) transitions respectively13 and we again show first the results of experiments with linearly polarised photolysis and probe beams.
Result	Table 2 collects data for the two transitions taken (as for NO2) with appropriate combinations of photolysis and probe polarisations, and shows good agreement amongst the values of the alignment moments for the two probe transitions.
Conclusion	The constancy of such data confirms the assignments of Morrill et al13. for these two lines, and we illustrate this confirmation in the analysis of data in Figs. 3a and 3b.
Problem	Here we see the effect of switching the polarisation of the REMPI laser from θ = 0 to 90°, whilst holding the photolysis laser at the magic angle of 54.7° to the TOF flight axis.
Problem	This experimental geometry is sensitive mainly to the bipolar moment β00(22), i.e. the v–J correlation.18
Result	We see that the difference profiles are of opposite sign in the two cases, exactly as expected for S and R branch transitions, with a smaller difference for the R branch as expected from the relative values of the line strength factors qi.
Conclusion	Probing on an S branch transition will therefore yield a higher sensitivity to the v–J correlation moment β00(22), as seen in the slightly lower error limit of Table 2.
Result	Fits to the data with the assumption that the lines are identified as S(20) and R(20) respectively return a common and physically reasonable value of ca. −0.26 for the β00(22) bipolar moment, indicating the velocity and angular momentum of the diatomic photofragment are dominantly perpendicular (although not as marked as in the case of NO2).
Result	The higher order terms listed in Table 2 were obtained in a similar way to that described for NO2 photolysis.
Method	In addition however it was necessary to involve moments βKQ(k1k2) with the index k2 = 4.
Result	These moments have a particularly marked effect on the R branch transition of a (2 + 1) REMPI process, as reflected in the flatter profile near x = 0 in Fig. 3b compared with the shape of the S branch in Fig. 3a, and their values were consistent with the lower order moments shown in Table 2.
Result	If we neglect the moments with k2 = 4, we find for example values of β00(22) = −0.16 ± 0.2 and −0.21 ± 0.08 for the R(20) and S(20) lines respectively, and a comparison of these values with the data of Table 2 indicates the large effect for the R branch, together with a change in the error limits for the less affected S branch.
Result	We also note that the widths of the profiles are consistent with these assignments: the width depends upon the translational energy release in the photolysis, and its value gives an estimate of the O2 internal energy.
Result	The resultant energy resolution for these data at J = 20 can be estimated as corresponding to ΔJ = ±3, by no means of high spectroscopic quality, but useful again for confirmation of the assignment.
Result	The other alignment moments in Table 2 for J = 20 are consistent with a parallel transition followed by prompt dissociation, as for NO2.
Background	Our reported values for the μ–v correlation, β20(20), are in broad agreement with previously published data on the molecular fragment from photofragment translational spectroscopy (0.8 ± 0.1, 275 − 295 nm)31 and time-of-flight studies within this group32 (0.65 ± 0.07 at 290 nm) and on the atomic fragment via photofragment spectroscopy (0.50 ± 0.05, 274 nm),27 VUV LIF (0.56 ± 0.06, 266 nm)33 and ion imaging (0.75 ± 0.08, 265 nm; 0.80 ± 0.08, 275 nm).34
Conclusion	The variation in magnitude of β20(20) within these studies can again be attributed to varying rotational temperatures of the parent O3 molecule.22,33
Method	Qualitative indications of perpendicular alignment of v and J vectors in the Hartley band dissociation of ozone have been reported in our previous TOF measurements,32 and in the ion imaging experiments by Suits et al.35
Result	In Table 2 we also include measurements on the O(24) line at 321.810 nm, which also appears to be isolated in Fig. 2 (we are unable to study O(20) because of spectral congestion).
Result	Once again the analysis as an O branch line yields similar alignment parameters to those for the S and R branch lines.
Background	Measurements of these vector correlations at different wavelengths in the Hartley band, as a function of J, and on transitions in the (1,0) as well as the (2,0) d 1Πg ←← a 1Δg band will be described elsewhere:36 in this work we concentrate only on even values of J for photolysis at 270 nm.
Background	We now turn our attention to the orientation parameter β20(21).
Result	Fig. 4 shows measurements on the S(20) and R(20) features of Fig. 2, again with the electric vector of the photolysis laser at 45° to the TOF axis and with circularly polarised probe radiation.
Result	Differences between profiles taken with left and right circularly polarised light should now show the same sign for S and R branches (the dominant q1 term in eqn. (2) is the same sign for the two branches), as experimentally observed, and in contrast to the linearly polarised example shown in Fig. 3.
Result	We also note the magnitude of the difference is considerably larger than for the NO case of Fig. 1.
Conclusion	Although part of this is because of a larger value of β20(21) (see below), we note that the orientation effect is much more easily observed using a (2 + 1) REMPI scheme, as the geometric factors, qi, for probing the orientation moment β20(21) are considerably greater than for (1 + 1′) REMPI.
Result	Lineshapes observed with linearly polarised light allows straightforward differentiation between branches with different values of |ΔJ|, i.e. the S and R branches shown in Fig. 3.
Result	With linearly polarised light however it is not straightforward to distinguish between O and S branch transitions as the sensitivity to branches with |ΔJ| = 2 is the same.
Result	They may be differentiated when circular polarisation is employed, as shown in Fig. 4c.
Result	Here we measure correlations on the O(24) transition at 321.810 nm and observe a change in sign of the difference profiles compared with the S branch, confirming the assignment of Morrill et al.13
Conclusion	Although the present measurements are on lines where the assignments are robust, we suggest that the use of this “spectroscopy through dynamics” method of determining the magnitude and sign of ΔJ and also the magnitude of J (within rather wide error bars) will be useful in the assignment of the more perturbed and overlapped regions of the spectrum.
Result	For example, on the strong feature at 321.451 nm in Fig. 2, noted as a P branch head, we measure a value of β00(22) = −0.07 ± 0.07 when it is analysed as a pure P branch transition, a result which is incompatible with the values of ca. −0.27 obtained earlier.
Conclusion	Part of this discrepancy may be explained by overlap with O branch features at this wavelength,13 as the two branches in linear polarisation will have difference spectra which have opposite signs.
Problem	We now consider the values of the β20(21) bipolar moment, and turn first to the S(20) transition.
Result	The ratio q1/q3 in eqn. (2) is 4.5, which in combination with the premultiplier factors means that the effect of the higher moment terms is negligible (for example, the coefficient of β20(23) is only 6% of that for β20(21)).
Result	Extraction of β20(21) for this and similarly for the O(24) line is therefore straightforward and yields values of 0.55 ± 0.04 and 0.60 ± 0.04 respectively.
Result	For the R(20) line the magnitude of the coefficient of β20(23) is now 30% of that for β20(21), and we should not neglect higher terms.
Result	However we find that our returned values of β20(21) are relatively insensitive to the absolute magnitudes the two higher terms in eqn. (2), because their coefficients are of opposite sign and their effects tend to cancel.
Result	For example, if we set β20(21) equal to 0.57, the average value found from the S and O branch measurements, and vary both β20(23) and β20(43) in fitting the sum and difference profiles of the R branch line we find values of −0.32 and +0.80 respectively.
Result	If we neglect the higher moments we obtain a value of β20(21) = 0.65 ± 0.02, close to our value when higher moments are taken into account, and illustrating the cancelling effect.
Conclusion	We should note however that although we are insensitive to the absolute values of these higher moments, we are sensitive to their ratio.
Result	In the limiting case when μ and v are perpendicular to J, then we can express8β20(23)/β20(43) = −√15/8 = −0.48, and this is close to our observed ratio of −0.40.
Result	We see good agreement with the values of the orientation moment β20(21) for the three branches.
Result	Our value for the S(20) line, 0.55, is approximately twice those observed from the photolysis of NO2 but of the same sign, indicating again the dominance of the recoil effect on the central atom in determining the sense of the product rotation.
Result	The magnitude of the impulse delivered by the departing O atom is approximately the same for the photolysis of both parent molecules, with the departing NO and O2 fragments both having speeds of approximately 1000 ms−1.
Conclusion	The difference in β20(21) values remains to be explained in terms of the appropriate angles described in eqn. 3 and we hope that measurements such as these will stimulate trajectory calculations on the latest ab initio surfaces37.
Result	Photolysis of a thermal sample of NO2 at 320 nm produces NO(X 2Π) fragments whose average orientation parameter, β20(21), is 0.24 ± 0.04.
Result	The orientation parameter is found to be essentially independent of the quantum state probed and our results are in excellent agreement with complementary investigations.
Result	Studies on the O2 (a 1Δg) fragment produced from photolysis of O3 at 270 nm show that this fragment is also oriented but now the orientation is markedly larger with β20(21) ≈ 0.6.
Conclusion	We have been able to make use of angular momentum polarisation to confirm spectral assignments of the highly perturbed O2 d 1Πg(v = 2) ←← a 1Δg (v = 0) REMPI spectrum.

Problem	Efficient evaluation of three-center two-electron integrals over Gaussian functions
Method	The RI (resolution of the identity) technique achieves significant increases in efficiency for various molecular electronic structure methods.
Method	This results from the approximation of four-center two-electron integrals by corresponding three-center integrals.
Method	It is shown that the three-center integrals required can be evaluated with a much simpler algorithm than for the general case.
Background	This further increases the advantage of RI procedures.
Method	The evaluation of electron repulsion integrals (ERI) over basis functions a,b,c,d(ab|cd) = ∫ a(r1)b(r1)r12−1c(r2)d(r2)dτis a basic task in molecular electronic structure methods.
Method	The computation of ERIs is typically the dominant step in HF (Hartree–Fock) and DFT (density functional theory) treatments of molecules if the electronic energy is computed exactly within a basis set expansion of molecular orbitals.
Background	It is thus desirable to develop approximations for eqn. (1) which combine efficiency and accuracy.
Method	The RI (resolution of the identity) technique is a proven procedure for this purpose.
Problem	The present paper gives a brief summary of the RI method at first, then treats the evaluation of three-center integrals within the Obara–Saika1 (OS) procedure, and finally presents new vertical recursion relations for spherical harmonics as auxiliary functions.
Method	An introduction of the RI technique2–7 conveniently starts from the definition〈f|g〉 = ∫ f(r1)r12−1g(r2)dτwhich fulfils all requirements of a scalar product: it is linear and positive definite, since 〈f|f〉 = 0 if and only if f = 0.
Method	ERIs are then simply written as (ab|cd) = 〈ab|cd〉.
Method	Let us now introduce a set of functions labelled P, Q and the projection operator onto this space where MPQ denotes matrix elements of the inverse of 〈P|Q〉. is optimal in the sense is usually called ‘resolution of the identity’; its insertion into eqn. (1) yields the RI approximation for ERIs (using parentheses for two-electron integrals since this is common usage for the charge density notation) We similarly get a concise expression for the Coulomb energy J of a charge distribution ρ(r)which has an error (O||δρ||2) in the sense of eqn. (4).
Method	The functions P, Q are usually termed auxiliary or fitting functions, since eqn. (6) implies that ρ is approximated as ρ ≈  = ρ.
Method	The approximation in eqn. (5) decomposes four-index ERIs into two- and three-index-terms which is its most important feature.
Method	The formal O(N4) effort to evaluate (ab|cd), N = number of basis functions, is thus reduced to O(N3).
Method	If the auxiliaries P, Q are chosen as atom-centered functions one further has to deal with three-centre integrals only, which leads to additional simplifications as will be demonstrated below.
Method	The errors introduced by the approximation in eqn. (5) are of no concern if optimized auxiliary functions are employed.
Background	This has been demonstrated in a series of investigations considering J, the HF exchange K, and correlated treatments based on second order perturbation theory.7–11
Background	Gains in efficiency resulting from the RI technique are most pronounced for the treatment of J.
Method	Other procedures have been developed for the very same purpose, such as CFMM (continuous fast multipole moment)12 in combination with the J engine method13 and Fourier techniques.14
Method	Multipole moment methodology can also be exploited within RI, thus combining the advantages of both procedures.15
Method	We consider the evaluation of (ab|P) for the usual choice of atom-centered GTOs (Gaussian type orbitals)|la〉 = a(r) = (x − Ax)lx(y − Ay)ly(z − Az)lze−α|r − A|2l = (lx,ly,lz), l = lx + ly + lz.With the shorthand notation a(r) = |la〉 we drop the parameters A and α. b(r) = |lb〉 will be similarly specified by lb, β, B, and the auxiliary function P(r) = |L〉 by L, γ, C, and we write (ab|P) = (lalb|L).It is sufficient to consider (la0|L) since the general case is recovered by the horizontal recursion relation, e.g.
Method	(la(lb + 1i|L) = ((la + 1i)lb|L) + (Ai − Bi)(lalb|L), with 1i = (δix, δiy, δiz,) for i = x,y,z.
Method	Although we consider Cartesian Gaussians, eqn. (7), we will assume that |L〉 is always transformed later on to reduced (real) spherical harmonics comprising 5, 7, 9 components for d, f, g sets.
Method	This can be done explicitly by a transformation step, which is advantageous if integrals have to be transformed into an MO representation as in correlated treatments.
Method	For HF or DFT it is easier to ensure simply that contraction coefficients cL of (lalb|L) do not contain components of s type for a d set, or of p type for an f set, etc.
Background	The choice of reduced auxiliary functions is not only more aesthetic; it also improves numerical stability.
Problem	We demonstrate simplifications of integral evaluations for the OS scheme since this has been considered and implemented.
Method	The relevant equations and definitions are, if we stay close to the nomenclature of OS (keeping their P, since this can hardly be confused with the auxiliary functions):(00|0)(m) = 2π5/2(ζ + γ)1/2(ζγ)−1e−(αβ/ζ)|A−B|2Fm(x)x = ρ|P − Q|2The true ERI has index m = 0, the recursion then requires m > 0 for intermediate quantities, i.e.m = 0 to (la + lb + L) for the start, eqn. (10).
Method	In general the easiest way is to first get the necessary (l0|0)(m), eqn. (11), and then to increase L by means of eqn. (12).
Result	The last step typically dominates by far the evaluation of a complete integral batch.
Method	The recursive increase of L can be simplified.
Method	The first term on the rhs of eqn. (12) clearly vanishes since Q = C.
Background	This is trivial and the corresponding term has only been included to show differences to the general case (ab|cd).
Method	Next we exploit that components of |L〉 are (transformed to) spherical harmonics.
Method	This implies the following asymptotic decay of integrals:(l0|L) ∝ |P − C|−L−1 for |P − C| → ∞.(l0|L) may vanish even faster if l0 does not include a partial wave of s character but this is of no concern for the present considerations.
Method	Withone can identify all contributions to the final integral that vanish too slowly, and these terms can be neglected since they cancel in the transformation to spherical harmonics.
Method	From eqns. (10) and (11) one has (l0|0)(0) ∝ |P − C|−1The third term on the rhs of eqn. (12) maintains this asymptotic behavior, which in the final integral, m = 0, would lead to (l0|L) ∝ |P − C|−1 in contradiction to eqn. (17).
Result	This implies that the third term on the rhs of eqn. (12) can be neglected since it cancels after transformation.
Result	The fourth term on the rhs of eqn. (12) has the same structure as the third and cancellation applies here as well.
Result	That the third and fourth term cannot matter can also be seen directly.
Method	For L = 2, i.e. a set of d functions, these terms give identical contributions ((1/2η)(l0|0)(m) − (ρ/2η2)(l0|0)(m+1)) to the integrals involving Cartesian functions dx2, dy2, dz2, and this cancels if one goes over to dx2−y2 and d3z2−r2.
Result	The same reasoning applies for sets of f, g, etc., functions.
Method	We thus can replace the five-term recursion in eqn. (12) by a two-term recursion Since the index m on the lhs is connected only with (m + 1) on the rhs, one starts the recursion with (l0|0)(L), then gets (l0|1)(L−1), etc., until the final integral (l0|L)(0) is reached.
Method	For each L one has only a single m value and this index can simply be implied with corresponding savings in memory and overhead necessary to implement eqn. (20).
Result	The reduction in the index range of m following from eqn. (20) also leads to a reduced index range in the recursion eqn. (11), and eqn. (10) is required only for L ≤ m ≤ (L + la + lb).
Result	It should be mentioned that there is an alternative to eqn. (12),16 which is more efficient for four-center integrals, especially for large angular momentum functions.
Result	This advantage is lost for the present case of three-center integrals.
Background	Two features are relevant for an implementation of eqn. (20).
Result	For the intermediate integrals, m > 0, one does not need all components of a shell: dx2, dy2, dz2, and dxy suffice to get a complete f shell, and six f components for a g set, etc.
Method	For the final batch, (l0|(L + 1i))(0) , one will not use eqn. (20) directly if integrals over contracted GTOs are computed.
Method	It is more efficient to accumulate (l − 1i)0|L)(1) separately and to add the sum later on.
Method	This offers the advantage that ((l − 1i)0|L)(1) has fewer components than (l0|(L + 1i)).
Problem	We summarize the simplification resulting from the RI technique in comparison to conventional treatments based on (ab|cd).
Result	(i) The original five term recursion eqn. (12) is replaced by a two-term recursion eqn. (20).
Result	(ii) Different from the general case in eqn. (12) each intermediate batch (l0|L) occurs only with a single m value; this reduces storage and computational requirements.
Result	(iii) The simple form of eqn. (20) greatly facilitates the development of optimized hand-coded routines.
Conclusion	We note in passing that even larger simplifications can be achieved if only two-center integrals have to be computed17 and the present case lies in between the two-center and four-center cases.
Background	The above described algorithm, including optimized hand-coded routines for la + lb + L ≤ 4, has been implemented in TURBOMOLE18 and will be included in the next release.
Result	The efficiency of the procedure can be seen from timings of an example at hand, a treatment of Cu40Sb21(PH3)28, symmetry T, with 173 atoms, 1905 contracted GTOs in an SV(P) basis,19 and 5184 (contracted) auxiliary functions.7
Result	The evaluation of the interelectronic Coulomb interaction J required (per iteration): 64 s in direct mode (all integrals computed on the fly); 46 s if 660 MB was used to store three-center integrals in memory; and 20 s if the far-field integrals were obtained by multipole moment techniques,15 all timings for a 2.4 GHz Xeon.

Problem	The shape of neurotransmitters in the gas phase: A theoretical study of adrenaline, pseudoadrenaline, and hydrated adrenaline
Method	The conformational landscapes of adrenaline and pseudoadrenaline have been explored by electronic structure computation at the B3LYP/6-31+G*, MP2/6-31+G* and MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ levels of theory.
Conclusion	Based on the relative energies of the different conformers, we conclude that the extended AG1a and folded GG1a conformers are the most likely candidates for detection in spectroscopy experiments using a supersonic expansion.
Result	Predictions for the infrared spectra of the AG1a and GG1a conformers and their 1∶1 hydrates are presented.
Method	We explored the suitability of a rigid-body DMA-based model potential to locate the most stable 1∶1 and 1∶2 adrenaline-water clusters.
Result	The model potential was able to locate all relevant 1∶1 clusters, but failed to find the most stable 1∶2 cluster.
Background	This paper is part of a combined theoretical/experimental study of the catecholamine neurotransmitters.
Background	Previous work in this series include the investigation of the conformational landscapes of noradrenaline (NA),1 the simplest catecholamine neurotransmitter, and of singly hydrated NA.2
Problem	The current work focuses on the adrenaline (A)/pseudoadrenaline (PA) pair.
Background	Noradrenaline has one chiral centre (the Cβ atom, see Fig. 1 for the labelling of the atoms), and thus occurs in two spectroscopically identical chiral forms (R and S).
Background	Adrenaline/pseudoadrenaline is formed by the replacement of one of the hydrogens of the terminal NH2 group by a methyl group.
Background	This makes the N atom chiral as well, which leads to the existence of two diastereoisomers: adrenaline (1R2S/1S2R) and pseudoadrenaline (1S2S/1R2R).
Background	A biomolecule's molecular shape plays a crucial role in its transport properties, its selectivity and function, and its receptor binding properties.
Background	Its shape and conformation result from a delicate balance of intramolecular and environmental influences.
Background	The study of gas-phase biomolecules is essential in order to differentiate the relative importance of the intrinsic and environmental influences on the biomolecule's conformation.
Problem	In this article we provide a full theoretical characterisation of the neutral conformers of adrenaline and pseudoadrenaline in the gas phase, and provide a first investigation of the 1∶1 and 1∶2 hydrates of adrenaline.
Background	The functional groups of the catecholamine neurotransmitters (the catecholic hydroxyls, the chain OH and NH groups, and the π electron cloud) provide many possible water-binding sites.
Background	For the most stable NA conformer (AG1a), we located as many as eleven different AG1a–H2O structures.2
Background	To find the most stable hydrates, one should not only investigate clusters involving the most stable conformer, but one has to consider several of the low-lying conformers, as the interaction with water may change the relative stability of the conformers.
Background	In pseudoephedrine, for example, hydration results in a substantial rearrangement of its conformational landscape, altering the conformation at the global minimum from an extended (Aga) to a folded (Gga) conformation.3
Background	In addition, the number of local minima increases steeply with the number of constituents in the cluster.
Background	Consequently, a full study of the adrenaline hydrates will be a formidable task.
Problem	In this paper, we present the initial investigation of the 1∶1 and 1∶2 adrenaline hydrates.
Problem	We investigate the different water-binding sites, and we comment on the most appropriate theoretical methodology to compute the relative stability of hydrates containing different adrenaline conformers.
Problem	In addition, we explore the suitability of force-field calculations using a DMA (distributed multipole analysis)-based rigid-body model potential for scanning the potential energy surface of the hydrates.
Background	The catechol OH groups have two possible orientations forming an intramolecular hydrogen bond: Cδ-syn (the catechol hydrogens are syn with respect to the Cδ–H group) and Cδ-trans (the catechol hydrogens are trans with respect to the Cδ–H group).
Background	There is, in fact, a third orientation for the catechol OH groups.
Background	In this one the catechol hydrogens point away from each other, preventing the catechol OH groups to form an intramolecular hydrogen bond.
Background	This orientation was also identified as a local minimum on the potential energy surface of catechol,4–6 and caffeic acid (which consists of a catechol moiety and a propenoate side chain).7
Background	It is however much less favourable than the orientations forming an intramolecular hydrogen bond.
Background	We have therefore not considered this particular orientation of the catechol OH groups.
Problem	We first explored the conformational landscapes of adrenaline and pseudoadrenaline holding the catechol OH groups in the Cδ-trans orientation.
Method	To provide starting structures for geometry optimisations, the γ1 = γ(Cδ–Cγ–Cβ–Cα), γ2 = γ(Cγ–Cβ–Cα–N), γ3 = γ(Cβ–Cα–N–C) torsion angles were initially set to 0°, 60°, 120°, 180°, 240° and 300°, and γ4 = γ(Cγ–Cβ–O–H) was set to 60°, 180° and 300°.
Method	For γ1, γ2 and γ3 we initially used torsion angle step sizes of 60°.
Method	As the eclipsed conformations were found not to be local minima on the potential energy surface, part of the conformational search considered only staggered conformations.
Method	The resulting conformations were subjected to HF/6-31G* geometry optimisations.
Method	The geometries of all conformers with energies less than 20 kJ mol−1 above the global minimum were re-optimised with density functional theory (DFT) using the B3LYP8,9 functional and the 6-31+G* basis set.
Method	The Cδ-syn conformers of the ten most stable A and of the ten most stable PA conformers were located using B3LYP/6-31+G*.
Result	One of the A Cδ-syn conformers (AG3a-2) appeared to be unstable.
Method	The relative energies of the resulting nineteen A and twenty PA conformers were evaluated by single-point MP2/6-31+G* and MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ calculations.
Method	Zero-point energies (scaled by 097610). and scaled (097610. for OH, 095611. for NH) harmonic vibrational frequencies were calculated at the B3LYP/6-31+G* level of theory.
Method	The A–H2O and PA–H2O structures considered in this work were optimised with B3LYP/6-31+G*.
Method	The interaction energies were corrected for BSSE (basis set superposition error) by using the counterpoise procedure.12
Method	The deformation energies were taken into account as well.
Method	These are computed as the difference of the energy of A/PA (or H2O) at the geometry the monomer adopts in the complex, and the energy of the free molecule at its equilibrium geometry re.
Background	As discussed in our recent paper on NA–H2O,2 there are two possible choices for the geometry of the free adrenaline.
Background	If one is interested in how strongly water binds to a particular conformer, then the equilibrium geometry of this particular conformer should be used.
Background	The resulting interaction energy is called the specific water interaction energy (ΔEH2O).
Background	However, if one wants to compute relative interaction energies of A–H2O complexes consisting of different A conformers, then one should use the equilibrium energy of the most stable conformer.
Background	Relative energies calculated like this are corrected for BSSE, in contrast to relative energies based on the A–H2O total energies.
Method	Unless specified otherwise, we will use the second definition in the current paper.
Method	To provide the interaction energies at 0 K, ΔE0, the (harmonic, scaled by 0.976) zero-point energies (ZPE) of AW and the separated fragments (computed in the harmonic approximation) were taken into account: ΔE0 = ΔE + EZPEAW − EZPEA(global)(re) − EZPEW(re)(For the specific water interaction energy , one should take the zero-point energy of adrenaline at the equilibrium geometry of the particular conformer one is interested in, instead of that of the global minimum).
Method	In the current paper, the interaction energies are listed as De (=−ΔE) and D0 (=−ΔE0), so that positive values denote an attractive interaction.
Background	The interaction energies of π-type hydrogen bonds are difficult to evaluate accurately, due to the large contribution of the dispersion energy to the interaction, which is known to converge slowly with addition of high angular momentum polarisation functions.13
Background	Current standard density functionals cannot evaluate the dispersion energy quantitatively.14
Background	MP2 in principle allows the calculation of dispersion-type interactions; however, MP2 calculations with large basis sets readily become intractable for the size of systems studied in this work.
Method	An earlier study on indole-H2O and methylindole-H2O15 showed that MP2 calculations employing the compact interaction-optimised DZPi basis set16,17 do give accurate interaction energies, for conventional and π-type H-bonded complexes.
Problem	We have therefore computed the structures and geometries of the π-bonded complexes with MP2/DZPi.
Background	The effect of BSSE on the intermolecular geometry can be quite large15,18 when using the DZPi basis set.
Method	To correct for this in an approximate way, the hydrogen-bond distances in these complexes were corrected for BSSE by numerically locating the distance for which the counterpoise-corrected De has its maximum.1,15,17,18
Method	The electronic-structure calculations were performed with Gaussian 98 (revisions A.9 and A.11)19 and NWChem (version 4.1)20 on clusters of 1.7 GHz Pentium 4 and 2.0 GHz dual Xeon PCs running Linux.
Method	An Origin 2000 and a cluster of Sun 900 MHz V880 servers at the HiPerSPACE Computing Centre at University College London were used as well.
Method	As usual, only the valence electrons were correlated.
Method	Gaussian's “ultrafine” integration grid was used for the DFT calculations.
Method	The optimisations were converged using Gaussian's “tight” criteria for the cutoffs on forces and step size.
Background	The model potential used, dubbed MP2fit/DMA, was developed in a study on uracil-water,21 and used recently in an investigation of protonated nicotine interacting with water and a third body.22
Background	It consists of an atom–atom 6–exp potential to describe the repulsion and dispersion terms, and a DMA (distributed multipole analysis) model for the electrostatic contribution.
Background	All individual terms of this potential are pairwise additive, and thus, it can readily be extended to complexes containing more than two molecules.
Background	The potential has different parameters for each atom type (C, N, O, H), and it distinguishes between hydrogens attached to C, polar hydrogens (attached to O or N), and water hydrogens.
Background	The DMA model uses atomic multipoles up to hexadecapole, derived from ab initio wavefunctions (MP2/6-311++G(2d,2p) for water, MP2/6-311G** for adrenaline), and includes all terms in the atom–atom multipole expansion up to Rab−5.
Method	The DMA was derived from the wavefunctions calculated with Gaussian 98 by using the GDMA23 program.
Background	As the MP2fit/DMA potential is a rigid-body potential, the DMA for adrenaline needs to be recomputed for each different conformer.
Method	The monomer geometries used were obtained by geometry optimisations at the same level of theory as used to calculate the DMAs.
Method	The model potential calculations were done with the program Orient.24
Background	Further details on the potential model are provided in ref. 25.
Result	The structures of the sixteen most stable A and PA conformers (based on the single-point MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ energies) are shown in Fig. 2.
Background	To classify the A and PA conformers we used the same notation as employed in our previous study on NA,1 which is based on previous studies on 2-amino-1-phenylethanol10,26 and the ephedra:27–29
Method	(i) The A/G notation denotes the arrangements (anti or gauche) of the Cγ–Cβ–Cα–N and O–Cβ–Cα–N atom chains, respectively.
Method	(ii) In NA, which contains an NH2 group instead of the NH(CH3) group in A and PA, the AG and GG conformers have either a short OH⋯N (AG1, GG1), or a short NH⋯O (AG2/3, GG2/3) contact.
Method	(The AG2/3 and GG2/3 families differ depending on which amino H atom is involved in the H-bonding).
Method	In A and PA, the corresponding AG2/3 and GG2/3 families will have an NH⋯O (if the free hydrogen in the corresponding NA structure is methylated) or a CH⋯O contact (if the hydrogen-bonding H atom is methylated).
Method	(iii) The catechol OH groups can have two different orientations (Cδ-syn and Cδ-trans) and the side chain can be above or below the ring.
Method	This is notated by “a” (Cδ-syn, above plane), “b” (Cδ-trans, above plane), “c” (Cδ-trans, below plane) and “d” (Cδ-syn, below plane).
Method	Cδ-syn and Cδ-trans conformations corresponding to the same side chain conformation differ slightly in energy due to interaction of the catechol hydroxyl groups with the side chain functional groups.
Background	This was also observed for caffeic acid7 for which the Cδ-syn conformers were found to have a slightly lower energy than the Cδ-trans conformers.
Result	In A and PA the “a” conformers, which have a Cδ-syn orientation of the catecholic hydroxyls, appear to be favoured.
Result	The conformers with an intramolecular OH⋯N hydrogen bond (AG1, GG1) are more stable than the NH⋯O hydrogen-bonded structures (AG2, AG3, GG2).
Conclusion	This is in agreement with the larger polarity of OH as compared to NH, as well as with studies on the hydrogen-bonding abilities of oxygen and nitrogen in different hydrogen-bonding environments (oxygens covalently bound to two non-hydrogen atoms of which at least one is sp2 hybridised30 and hydrogen bonds to monocyclic aromatic heterocycles31), which showed that nitrogen atoms are stronger hydrogen-bond acceptors than oxygens.
Background	Rablen et al. likewise found that nitrogens are better hydrogen-bond acceptors than sp3-hybridised oxygens.32
Background	(However, Vargas et al. found that NH⋯O interactions are more stable than NH⋯N interactions,33 which is in contradiction with the presumed larger hydrogen-bond acceptor ability of N as compared to O).
Background	In our previous study on noradrenaline we found that the twenty most stable NA conformers are of the AG or GG types (AG1, GG1, AG2, AG3 and GG2).1
Result	The twenty most stable A conformers (based on the B3LYP energies) include the equivalents of the AG1, GG1 and AG3 conformers found for NA, a second AG3 family and a GA family.
Method	For completeness, we have also optimised the structures of the AG2 and GG2 adrenaline conformers with B3LYP/6-31+G* (followed by single-point MP2/6-31+G* and MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ calculations).
Result	The relative energies of the resulting 27 A conformers, listed in decreasing order of stability based on the MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ energies, are collected in Table S1 of the ESI.
Result	The twenty most stable PA conformers (based on the B3LYP energies) include the equivalent conformers of the AG1, GG1 and AG2 conformers found for NA, as well as a GA and GG3 family, which were not among the most stable NA conformers.
Problem	We have also calculated the relative energies of the AG3 and GG2 families, which were not among the twenty most stable PA conformers.
Result	The relative energies Δ(Ee) and Δ(E0) of the resulting 28 PA conformers, in decreasing order of stability based on the MP2/aug-cc-pVDZ Δ(Ee) values, are listed in Table S2 of the ESI.
Result	At the B3LYP level of theory, PA is slightly more stable than A; this order is reversed however at the MP2 level of theory.
Problem	Even though A and PA are roughly isoenergetic, it is not likely that there will be interconversion between the two diastereoisomers in supersonic expansion experiments, as interconversion via umbrella-inversion of the chiral amino group is expected to have a high barrier.
Method	We have calculated the HF/6-31G* relaxed potential energy profile for the umbrella inversion starting from the AG1a conformer, and optimised the geometry of the transition state for this process (see Fig. 3).
Result	The barrier height for this process is calculated to be 26.6 kJ mol−1.
Conclusion	As studies on conformational relaxation in supersonic jets indicate that barriers larger than 6 kJ mol−1 are sufficient to prevent conformational relaxation,34,35 it is very unlikely that A ↔ PA interconversion will take place at the low temperatures of supersonic jet experiments.
Result	There are significant differences between the B3LYP and MP2 relative energies of A and PA.
Result	This is demonstrated more effectively in Figs. 4 and 5, which show the relative energies Δ(E0) of the A and PA conformers grouped together in their conformational families.
Result	B3LYP underestimates the relative stability of the GG1 conformers, which contain a short N–H⋯π (A) or CH⋯π (PA) contact, of the GG2 conformers, which also contain a short N–H⋯π (PA) or CH⋯π (A) contact, and of the GA conformers, which contain a short NH⋯π interaction.
Conclusion	Thus, for conformers that contain π-type interactions, B3LYP is less reliable for calculating relative energies.
Result	Although B3LYP predicts the adrenaline GG1a conformer to be less stable than AG1a by 2.4 kJ mol−1 (3.0 kJ mol−1 after zero-point vibrational corrections), at the single-point MP2/aug- cc-pVDZ level of theory this energy gap has decreased to a mere 0.49 kJ mol−1 (1.06 kJ mol−1 after vibrational corrections).
Result	The narrow energy gap between the adrenaline AG1 and GG1 conformers was also observed for NA1 and APE (2-amino-1-phenylethanol),10 the benzene analogue of NA.
Background	However, whereas both AG1 and GG1 APE conformers were observed experimentally, the NA experiments, surprisingly showed only one NA conformer, which was assigned as AG1a.1
Method	(In the NA experiments, gas-phase NA was generated via laser ablation rather than evaporation using a heated nozzle, which may influence the observed conformer distribution).
Background	Similarly, the most intense band in the UV spectrum of APE was assigned to the extended AG conformer, even though MP2 calculations predicted the GG structure to be slightly more stable.10
Background	As different levels of theory yield different results on the relative stability of AG1a and GG1a, assignment of AG1a or GG1a as the global minimum cannot be based on the calculated energy differences alone.
Problem	It is likely that also for adrenaline the AG1a conformer will be the preferred structure.
Background	However, as for NA, this issue cannot be resolved without spectroscopic investigation.
Result	To aid future spectroscopic assignment, we have listed the harmonic frequencies of the hydride stretches of the AG1a and GG1a conformers, calculated at the B3LYP/6-31+G* level of theory, in Table 1.
Background	Frequencies of the other conformers are available upon request.
Result	The NH stretch modes have near-zero intensity, and cannot be expected to be observed experimentally.
Result	One of the catechol OH groups is hydrogen bonded to its neighbour, resulting in a red-shifted stretch mode.
Result	The “free” catechol OH stretch band, (OH)free, cat, and the stretch band of the hydrogen-bonded catechol OH, (OH–O)cat, occur at nearly identical frequencies/intensities in AG1a and GG1a, and therefore cannot be used to distinguish between the two conformers.
Result	Unfortunately, also the frequency of the hydrogen-bonded side-chain OH stretch mode, OH–N, is very similar in AG1a and GG1a, though the AG1a mode has a larger intensity.
Result	The PA OH–N mode, on the other hand, is sufficiently different in AG1a and GG1a to aid assignment of future observed conformers.
Result	Fig. 6 compares the relative energies Δ(E0) of the corresponding NA, A and PA conformers obtained from single-point MP2 calculations.
Result	The adrenaline AG2 conformers are much less stable than the corresponding NA and PA conformers.
Conclusion	This is because the A conformer has a CH⋯O instead of an NH⋯O interaction.
Result	Similarly, the pseudoadrenaline AG3 conformers are destabilised by the replacement of an intramolecular NH⋯O by a less favourable CH⋯O interaction.
Result	For the GG2 family both A and PA are destabilised with respect to the corresponding NA conformers, as the NH⋯π interaction is replaced by a CH⋯π contact in A, while in PA the NH⋯O interaction is replaced by a CH⋯O contact.
Problem	We have computed ten different AG1c–H2O and ten different AG3b–H2O structures.
Background	AG1c belongs to the most stable conformer family, AG1, whereas AG3b belongs to the first family of conformers with an intramolecular NH⋯O hydrogen bond.
Result	Table 2 shows the computed interaction energies of the AG1c–H2O hydrates.
Result	Their structures, located with B3LYP/6-31+G*, are shown in Fig. 7.
Background	Previous studies on the hydration of ethanolamine neurotransmitters and their analogues found two different categories of 1∶1 hydrates: insertion structures, in which the water inserts between two functional groups of the host molecule, and addition structures, formed by the addition of a water molecule to one of the functional groups.
Background	The global minimum is an insertion structure for 1∶1 clusters of 2-aminoethanol with phenol,36 and for the 1∶1 hydrates of 2-phenoxy-ethanol,37 APE,30 and the ephedrine/pseudoephedrine pair.3
Background	However, the most stable 1∶1 hydrate of NA (which has a catechol ring instead of the benzene ring in 2-phenoxy- ethanol, APE and the ephedra), was found to be an addition structure; the water molecule binds to one of the catechol OH groups,2 indicating that the hydroxyl groups of the catechol ring provide a more attractive water-binding site than the ethanolamine side chain.
Result	In the current study we find that this addition structure is also the most stable 1∶1 hydrate of the AG1c adrenaline conformer (see Table 2 and Fig. 7): in this structure (labelled catOH–Ow), the water binds to one of the catechol OH groups to form an OH⋯OH⋯OwHw daisy chain of hydrogen bonds.
Result	A related structure (catO–HwOw) with a similar hydrogen-bond chain but with water acting as the hydrogen bond donor is distinctly less stable.
Background	There are two different insertion-type structures, with water being located either between the chain OH and NH2 groups (OH–OwHw–N) or between the two catechol OH groups (catOH–OwHw–catO).
Result	The two insertion structures have large monomer deformation energies, reflecting the energy penalty associated with opening up the dihedral angle between the two functional groups, to make space for the water molecule.
Result	Despite this energy penalty, the OH–OwHw–N insertion structure is only slightly less stable than the global minimum (catOH–Ow).
Background	The water molecule can further bind to the side-chain NH group (NH–Ow), to either of the lone pairs of the side-chain oxygen (the two O–HwOw structures), and to the π-electron cloud of the catechol ring.
Background	In the first π-bonded structure, OH–OwHw–π, the water forms an additional hydrogen bond with this OH group.
Background	In the second π-bonded structure, OwHw–π, the water binds to the other face to the catechol ring, where there is no possibility to form an additional strong hydrogen-bonded contact (although there is some additional stabilisation due to the two CH⋯Ow interactions), and this structure is therefore less stable than the OH–OwHw–π minimum.
Result	Table 2 shows that the O–HwOw–π structure is not stable on the B3LYP/6-31+G* potential energy surface.
Problem	As the effect of BSSE on the intermolecular geometry can be quite large in π-bonded complexes,15,18 we re-optimised the hydrogen-bond distances of the two π-bonded structures with counterpoise corrections.
Result	The resulting interaction energies are given in parentheses in Table 2.
Result	This re-optimisation has negligible effect on the B3LYP results, but it significantly increases the MP2/DZPi interaction energy, thereby further increasing the discrepancy between the MP2 and DFT results.
Result	Fig. 7 shows that the re-optimisation significantly increases the MP2 hydrogen-bond distances.
Result	Fig. 7 shows two nearly iso-energetic catO–HwOw structures, just differing in the position of the free (not hydrogen-bonded) water hydrogen, which can be on either side of the aromatic ring.
Problem	To investigate the barrier for interconversion between the (a) and (b) structure, we have calculated the relaxed potential energy profile for rotation of the free water hydrogen around the Ocat–Ow axis.
Result	As can be seen in Fig. 8, the catO–HwOw (a) minimum is very shallow, with an almost non-existent barrier for conversion to the (b) structure, and it is therefore surprising that the (a) structure was found at all!
Result	Also shown in Fig. 8 is the counterpoise-corrected potential energy profile.
Result	The counterpoise-corrected barrier, though larger than the uncorrected barrier, is still only 0.8 kJ mol−1.
Problem	It can therefore be expected that the two minima will be indistinguishable even at the very low vibrational temperatures of supersonic jet experiments.
Background	Indeed, plots of the H-density derived from diffusion Monte Carlo studies on hydrogen-bonded complexes like uracil–(H2O)n (n = 1–3)21 and cytosine–(H2O)238 show a large-amplitude, banana-shaped, zero-point vibrational motion of the free water hydrogen atoms, covering the corresponding minima differing only in the position of the free water hydrogen (above or below the plane of the biomolecule).
Background	This delocalised zero-point motion indicates that even at 0 K these minima cannot be differentiated experimentally.
Result	Table 3 shows the computed interaction energies of the 1∶1 AG3b–H2O hydrates.
Result	Their structures, located with B3LYP/6-31+G*, are displayed in Fig. 9.
Background	The AG3b hydrates in which water binds to the catechol OH groups are very similar in structure and interaction energy to their corresponding AG1c hydrates.
Background	However, because AG3b has an NH⋯O hydrogen bond instead of the OH⋯N bond in AG1c, hydrates in which water binds to the side chain can be radically different.
Result	Thus, the insertion structure in which the water molecule is located between the side-chain OH and NH2 functional groups contains an OH⋯OwHw⋯N hydrogen-bond chain in AG1c–H2O, but an O⋯HwOw⋯NH hydrogen-bond chain in AG3b–H2O resulting in a 5 kJ mol−1 weaker interaction.
Result	The N⋯HOw interaction in the AG1c NH–Ow hydrate, on the other hand, is replaced by a stronger N⋯HwOw hydrogen bond in AG3b–H2O.
Result	The specific water interaction energy (32 kJ mol−1) shows that this is the most favourable water-binding site.
Result	The N–HwOw AG3b–H2O structure is of comparable stability to the most stable AG1c–H2O structure (catOH–Ow), despite the 2.5 kJ mol−1 smaller stability of the AG3b conformer.
Method	We re-optimised the hydrogen-bond lengths with counterpoise corrections for a selection of the AG3b–H2O minima (see Table 3 for the resulting interaction energies and Fig. 9 for the hydrogen-bond distances).
Result	The effect is very small for the B3LYP calculations, but the MP2/DZPi interaction energies are increased by 2.2–2.4 kJ mol−1.
Result	Unexpectedly, the effect is of similar magnitude for the π-bonded and conventional hydrogen-bonded structures.
Conclusion	The catOH–Ow hydrates of AG1a and GG1a, the two most stable adrenaline conformers, are the most likely candidates for experimental observation, since the catOH–Ow hydrate was found to be the observed NA–H2O structure.2
Result	Table 4 lists the calculated infrared frequencies of these two structures.
Background	(Infrared frequencies of the other hydrates are available upon request).
Result	Comparison of the frequencies of the bare molecule (Table 1) with those of the hydrates (Table 4) reveals a strong red shift of the (OH)cat frequency, accompanied by a large increase in intensity.
Result	This is due to hydrogen bonding with the water molecule, as was also observed for NA–H2O.2
Background	Finally, we would like to comment on the calculation of the interaction energies.
Background	As explained in the Methodology section, the interaction energies should be computed relative to the most stable conformer, more precisely, the most stable conformer for the method and basis set used.
Method	For B3LYP/6-31+G* and single-point MP2 calculations with the 6-31+G* or aug-cc-pVDZ basis sets this is the AG1a conformer, but for MP2/DZPi this is the GG1a conformer.
Method	Thus, the B3LYP/6-31+G* interaction energy of a particular AG1a–H2O hydrate will be the same as its specific water interaction energy, but the corresponding MP2/DZPi interaction energy will contain an energy penalty term reflecting the difference in stability of the AG1a and GG1a conformers.
Result	In Table 5 we have listed the specific interaction energies, and De, for the catOH–Ow hydrates of AG1a and GG1a.
Result	As can be seen, B3LYP/6-31+G* favours the AG1a hydrate, whereas MP2/DZPi favours the GG1a hydrate.
Background	To understand the effect of water on the geometry of the biomolecule, one has to study clusters containing numerous water molecules.
Background	However, there are several major problems with geometry optimisations of molecular clusters consisting of more than two constituents.
Background	Firstly, the number of local minima increases steeply with the number of constituents in the cluster, and secondly, the convergence of the calculations slows down due to the coupling of inter- and intramolecular degrees of freedom.39
Background	In addition, the individual energy calculations become much more computationally demanding.
Background	Thus, to find all possible minima for the A–(H2O)n clusters of several low-lying adrenaline conformers using methods like DFT or MP2 becomes a near-impossible task.
Background	We therefore need to find a computationally cheap, but reliable, method for exploring the potential energy surface of the A–(H2O)n (n > 1) clusters.
Background	The semi-empirical AM1 and PM3 methods are not suitable for this, as these methods failed to accurately predict the structure and relative stabilities of the different serotonin conformers.40
Problem	In this section, we explore the suitability of force-field calculations using the MP2fit/DMA21 rigid-body model potential for scanning the potential energy surface of the hydrates.
Method	The DMA electrostatic model of this potential accurately describes non-spherical features of the charge distribution, such as π-electron clouds and lone pairs, which play an important role in establishing the water-binding sites in the biomolecule.
Method	The model potential yields the interaction between two rigid monomer fragments, and thus, the MP2fit/DMA results should be compared to the B3LYP and MP2 specific water interaction energies.
Problem	We will first investigate the performance of the model potential for locating the 1∶1 hydrates of the AG1c and AG3b conformers.
Result	The resulting interaction energies are included in Tables 2 and 3.
Background	The results are very encouraging.
Result	All minima are found (we failed to locate one of the two O–HwOw AG1c hydrates, but as mentioned above, structures that only differ in the free Hw orientation are basically the same structure).
Result	The model potential generally yields interaction energies that are 2–4 kJ mol−1 larger than the corresponding B3LYP values, except for the π-bonded structures and the AG3c N–HwOw minimum, for which the model potential yields much larger interaction energies.
Conclusion	The discrepancy between the DFT and MP2fit/DMA results for the π-bonded structures is due to the inability of DFT to properly describe these structures, rather than deficiencies in the model potential.
Conclusion	This is confirmed by the good agreement between the MP2fit/DMA and MP2/DZPi results for the π-bonded structures.
Background	The discrepancy for the N-HwOw structure indicates a possible deficiency in the potential's parameters for N. The repulsion and dispersion parameters of O and H were adjusted to yield good agreement with MP2 data on the minima and transition states of uracil-water,25 but the N parameters were not attuned to ab initio data (they were derived from empirical fits to organic crystal structures and heats of sublimation41–43), and thus, the N parameters may not be optimal for reproducing the gas-phase structures.
Background	Of particular interest are the insertion-type structures.
Background	Because the MP2fit/DMA is a rigid-body potential, the adrenaline molecule cannot adjust its geometry to facilitate the water molecule to migrate between two of its functional groups.
Result	Both insertion structures (OH–OwHw–N/O–HwOw–HN and catOH–OwHw–catO) were found with the model potential calculations, demonstrating that the rigidity of the model potential does not prevent these structures to be found.
Background	Earlier work on uracil-(H2O)2 and uracil-(H2O)3 showed that the MP2fit/DMA potential yields good agreement with ab initio (MP2/DZPi) interaction energies and hydrogen-bond distances, despite the lack of many-body terms in the potential model.21
Background	As the three-body contribution is about 25% for uracil-(H2O)2, this indicates that the model potential's repulsion and dispersion parameters, which have been determined by empirical parameterisation, must have absorbed some of the water-water non-additivity.44
Problem	In this section, we investigate the model potential suitability for A–(H2O)2 clusters.
Method	We created AG3b–(H2O)2 starting structures by systematically varying the position of the two water molecules in steps of 2 Å, in three orthogonal directions.
Method	Two different rotational orientations of the water molecules were considered.
Method	Structures in which one of the moieties overlapped with another one (as indicated by an intermolecular distance smaller than 1.2 Å) were discarded.
Method	Structures in which a water molecule was too far from the adrenaline molecule (closest intermolecular contact larger than 4 Å) were discarded as well.
Method	The geometries of the resulting 33 540 geometries were optimised with the MP2fit/DMA model potential.
Method	One geometry optimisation took approximately 1 minute of CPU time on a 1.7 GHz Pentium 4 PC.
Result	We found as many as 170 different minima; however, some of these are very similar in structure.
Result	Fig. 10 lists the twelve most stable structures found with MP2fit/DMA, in decreasing order of stability.
Result	Structures 1, 4 and 11 are bridge structures: the two water molecules bridge the adrenaline chain oxygen and nitrogen functional groups.
Result	In all these, the adrenaline chain oxygen acts as a hydrogen-bond acceptor.
Background	Zwier suggested that such water bridges may be a preferred structural motif in cases where it can be formed.45
Result	Structures 1 and 4 are very similar, with just small differences in the position of the free water hydrogens.
Result	Structure 11 has a different hydrogen-bonding pattern than 1 and 4 (O⋯HO⋯HOH⋯N instead of O⋯HOH⋯OH⋯N).
Result	In structures 2, 3, 5 and 6 the water molecules form a dimer structure, which is bonded to the adrenaline nitrogen.
Background	We call these dimer addition structures.
Result	The different dimer addition structures just differ in the position of the free water hydrogens, or in the direction of the hydrogen-bond chain itself.
Result	The remaining five structures are double addition structures, formed by the addition of the two water molecules to two different functional groups of adrenaline: In structures 7 and 10 one water molecule binds to the nitrogen, while the other binds to the chain oxygen, whereas in structures 8 and 9 the second water binds to one of the catechol hydroxyl groups.
Result	Structure 12 is a mixed insertion/addition structure: the first water molecule is inserted between the chain O and the NH group, whereas the second water molecule is added to the nitrogen.
Method	We have reoptimised the structures of these twelve hydrates, and of two lower-lying hydrates (23 and 28), with B3LYP/6-31+G*.
Result	In structure 23 the two waters form a ring structure involving one of the catechol hydroxyls.
Result	Structure 28 contains a water dimer bridging the chain OH and π-electron binding sites.
Result	Structure 23 obeys the basic structural principle of XW2 clusters in which X corresponds to an aromatic alcohol (catechol, in this case), which are equivalent to a water trimer in which one of the free hydrogens is replaced by the aromatic ring.39
Result	Table 6 compares the MP2fit/DMA and B3LYP specific water interaction energies.
Result	Most B3LYP-optimised structures are very similar to their corresponding MP2fit/DMA structures, but there are some important differences.
Result	AW2-8 and AW2-9 converge to the same minimum when reoptimised with B3LYP.
Result	Two other structures (5 and 7) are not stable on the B3LYP potential energy surface.
Result	Most worryingly though, we have found an additional structure with B3LYP (labelled AW2-global, see Fig. 10).
Result	In this structure, the two waters bridge the chain OH and NH functional groups.
Result	The adrenaline chain oxygen acts as a proton donor (in contrast to the other bridge structures, 1, 4 and 11, in which the oxygen acts as an acceptor).
Result	To allow this particular water-binding arrangement, the OH group has to rotate by as much as 60° around the Cβ–O bond, changing the hydroxyl hydrogen from a staggered to an eclipsed position with respect to the Cβ hydrogen.
Result	This internal rotation is not possible with the rigid-body MP2fit/DMA potential.
Conclusion	Despite this large conformational distortion of adrenaline, costing 10 kJ mol−1, the AW2-global structure is the most stable AG3b–(H2O)2 hydrate located in this study.
Conclusion	In general, B3LYP gives smaller AG3b–(H2O)2 interaction energies than MP2fit/DMA.
Conclusion	Though it is possible that DFT underestimates the AG3b–(H2O)2 interaction energies, it is unlikely that they are underestimated by as much as 20 kJ mol−1.
Conclusion	Thus, it is more likely that MP2fit/DMA overestimates the interaction energies, even though the potential did not overestimate uracil-(H2O)2 interaction energies.46
Background	As the model potential proved unsuitable to locate the A–(H2O)2 structures, further investigation of this problem has not been pursued.
Background	Even though environmental effects play an important role in modelling biological processes, an understanding of the intrinsic energetics of flexible biomolecules is essential for disentangling the relative importance of the intrinsic and environmental effects.
Result	The most stable adrenaline/pseudoadrenaline conformers, in the gas phase, are those forming intramolecular hydrogen bonds: both the extended AG1 and the folded GG1 conformers contain an intramolecular OH⋯N hydrogen bond.
Background	Naturally, under physiological conditions, adrenaline will not adopt its gas-phase geometry.
Background	The structure of adrenaline in blood will be affected by environmental factors such as protonation, solvation and interaction with other molecules present, whereas the structure of the neurotransmitter in its receptor binding site will be influenced by competing hydrogen-bonding interactions with binding-site residues.
Background	However, by studying the shape of biomolecules in the gas phase, the environmental effects can be eliminated, allowing the molecule-solvent interaction to be studied in a controlled environment.
Background	A recent computational study provided a prediction for the structure and function of G protein-coupled receptors, including the β1-adrenergic receptor.47
Background	The study shows the two catechol OH groups forming hydrogen bonds with serine residues, whereas the chain hydroxyl and the amino group form hydrogen bonds with an aspartic acid, in good agreement with earlier mutation experiments.48–51
Background	The study predicts that the catechol hydrogens point away from each other, an unfavourable orientation not considered in the current work.
Background	Calculations show that this catechol group orientation is about 19 kJ mol−1 higher in energy than corresponding conformers in which the catechol OH groups form an intramolecular hydrogen bond.4,52
Background	Thus, environmental factors appear to have a profound effect on the structure of the neurotransmitter.
Background	Our initial investigation of the adrenaline hydrates in this paper provides a first step in studying the environmental effects on the structure of adrenaline.
Conclusion	Hydration is believed to play an important role in the drug-receptor recognition process.
Background	It has been proposed that the water surrounding the neurotransmitter and its receptor invokes the initial recognition process, possibly by a change in the receptor geometry induced by the structure-breaking effects of the catechol ring.53
Problem	In this study we have studied the 1∶1 hydrates of the AG1c and the 1∶1 and 1∶2 hydrates of the AG3b conformer.
Background	For a complete study of adrenaline hydration, one would have to include several of the low-lying conformers, as the interaction with water may change their relative stability, and one would have to look at larger clusters (containing more water molecules) as well.
Background	This is a formidable task, and would best be done in combination with an experimental study, which can provide guidance to the type of hydrates observed experimentally.
Conclusion	The current study shows the limitations of using a rigid-body potential for calculating the adrenaline hydrates.
Result	While the model potential did find all relevant 1∶1 hydrates, including the insertion-type structures, it failed to locate the most stable 1∶2 hydrate, characterised by a large internal rotation around the Cβ–O bond.
Result	A similar effect was observed for protonated nicotine-(H2O)2,22 Also for this system, the interaction with water induces a large conformational distortion, costing 12 kJ mol−1, which allows the two water molecules to bridge the pyridine and pyrrolidinium rings.
Result	Good agreement with the DFT results was obtained only when the distorted nicotine geometry (and its corresponding DMA) was used in the MP2fit/DMA model potential calculations.22
Conclusion	Thus, the model potential calculations can only be used as a guiding tool to find the most stable hydrates, as its rigid-body character prevents any water-induced conformational changes.
Background	The study of the hydrates of flexible biomolecules remains a difficult and computationally expensive task.
Problem	In this study, we have investigated the conformational structures of adrenaline (A) and pseudoadrenaline (PA) at the MP2 and DFT levels of theory.
Result	The calculations predict the extended AG1a and folded GG1a adrenaline conformers to be nearly isoenergetic.
Result	The pseudoadrenaline AG1a conformer on the other hand is more stable than GG1a by 3 kJ mol−1.
Background	It would be very interesting to see which A and PA conformers are formed in supersonic jet experiments.
Problem	We have explored the molecular structures of the 1∶1 hydrates of the AG1c and the 1∶1 and 1∶2 hydrates of the AG3b adrenaline conformer.
Result	In the most stable AG1c–H2O structure, the water molecule is bound as a proton acceptor to the p-OH catechol group, in a similar way as the most stable NA–H2O structure observed and predicted by theory.2
Result	In the most stable AG3b–H2O structure the water molecule is bound as a proton donor to the chain nitrogen.
Result	The MP2fit/DMA rigid-body model potential, which contains an accurate DMA model to describe the electrostatic energy contribution to the potential energy, correctly predicts all AG1c–H2O and AG3b–H2O structures.
Result	However, the model potential fails to locate the most stable AG3b–(H2O)2 structure located with B3LYP.
Conclusion	This structure is characterised by a large conformational distortion of the adrenaline moiety, which cannot be described by the rigid-body model potential.
Conclusion	This shows the limitation of rigid-body calculations in studies of biomolecular clusters.
Conclusion	To aid future spectroscopic assignment, we have provided infrared frequencies of the OH and NH stretch modes of the two most stable adrenaline conformers, AG1a and GG1a, and their most plausible singly hydrated clusters.

Problem	Hydrogen diffusion effects on the kinetics of the hydrogen electrode reactionPart II. Evaluation of kinetic parameters
Problem	The present work proposes a methodology for the evaluation of the kinetic parameters of the hydrogen electrode reaction for the Tafel–Heyrovsky–Volmer mechanism from experimental results corresponding to the study of the hydrogen oxidation on a rotating disc electrode.
Method	It is based on the correlation of the experimental dependence j(η,ω) with a theoretical expression together with some constraints that involve the use of the equilibrium polarisation resistance, which reduces the number of adjustable parameters.
Method	This methodology was applied to the hydrogen oxidation reaction on a platinum electrode, which was studied in the range 900 ≤ ω/rpm ≤ 8100 and −0.05 ≤ η/V ≤ 0.40 in 0.5 M H2SO4.
Background	The results obtained have been discussed in the light of the theoretical treatment described in Part I of this work.
Background	Diffusion plays an important role in the hydrogen electrode reaction (HER), especially when it is taking place in the anodic direction, the hydrogen oxidation reaction (hor).
Background	Consequently, the dependence of the current density on overpotential j(η) was described in many cases as a purely diffusional process, commonly named a ‘reversible reaction’.1–3
Background	On the other hand, more recent studies consider the hor a mixed controlled reaction, though with a strong diffusional contribution.4–7
Method	In this sense, the theoretical analysis described in the first part of the present work indicated that it is necessary for the application of diagnostic criteria and/or appropriate methodologies for the evaluation of the kinetic parameters characteristics of the HER from the analysis of the experimental results corresponding to the hydrogen oxidation.8
Background	It should be taken into account that the kinetic mechanism for the HER must be unique, independently if the reaction proceeds in the anodic (hor) or cathodic (hydrogen evolution reaction, her) direction and therefore, the set of kinetic parameters must be valid for both cases.
Background	Besides, the correct interpretation of the experimental results needs the appropriate description of the behaviour of the reaction intermediate H(a) and/or those of other adsorbed species.
Background	These two aspects should lead to a successful description of the HER in the whole range of overpotentials.
Problem	The present work proposes a methodology for the evaluation of the kinetic parameters of the HER for the Tafel–Heyrovsky–Volmer mechanism from experimental results.
Method	It is based on the correlation of the experimental dependence j(η,ω) with a theoretical expression together with some constraints that involve the use of the equilibrium polarisation resistance, which theoretical dependence on the rotation rate is also derived.
Method	The proposed methodology is applied for the study of the hydrogen oxidation on a rotating disc electrode (RDE) of polycrystalline platinum.
Method	Theoretical expressions of the current density (j) and the surface coverage (θ) as a function of overpotential (η) and limiting diffusional current density (jL) are necessary in order to evaluate the kinetic parameters of the hydrogen electrode reaction through the correlation of the experimental dependence j(η) of the hydrogen oxidation on a rotating disc electrode at different rotation rates (ω).
Method	The expressions j(η, jL) and θ(η, jL) corresponding to the simultaneous occurrence of the Tafel, Heyrovsky and Volmer steps were derived in Part I:8being α the symmetry factor, f = F/RT, θe the equilibrium surface coverage and vie the equilibrium reaction rate of the step i (i = Volmer, Heyrovsky, Tafel).
Method	As the current density generally reaches its maximum value at low overpotentials, j values near the equilibrium condition have only very little influence on the correlation of the experimental results obtained in a wide overpotentials region.
Method	Therefore, the use of the equilibrium polarisation resistance [Rp = dη/dj∣η = 0] is proposed in order to improve the evaluation of the kinetic parameters.
Method	The theoretical expression of the dependence Rp = Rp(vTe, vHe, vVe, θe, ω) can be obtained from the derivation of the first equality of eqn. (1) with respect to η.
Method	The resulting equation, for η → 0 is:The corresponding expression for dθ/dη∣η = 0 was obtained from the derivation of eqn. (2) and the application of the condition η → 0.
Background	After reordering, the equation can be written as follows:
Method	Substituting eqn. (4) into eqn. (3) and rearranging, the expression for Rp(ω) is obtained: where jL was substituted by the following relationship:9jL = Bω1/2Furthermore, the corresponding expression for the origin ordinate Rpo of the linear dependence Rp = f(ω−1/2), which can be defined as the equilibrium polarisation resistance free from diffusion effects, is:
Background	This equation is coincident to that previously derived for the hydrogen evolution reaction taking place under activated control.10
Method	Consequently, if Rpo is known, a relationship between the parameters vTe, vHe and vVe can be obtained from eqn. (7), which can be written as:
Method	From the use of eqn. (8), the behaviour of the dependence j(η) at low overpotentials can be included in the determination of the kinetic parameters of the HER.
Method	Although the parameters vTe, vHe, θe and B can be evaluated from the correlation of the experimental results with the simultaneous use of eqns. (1), (2) and (8), the theoretical analysis described in the first part of the present work indicated that two possible situations can be distinguished.8
Method	They are determined for the value of the origin ordinate of the linear dependence jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2). jmax is the maximum current density observed experimentally in the usual overpotentials range (η < 0.6 V), which is achieved when θ(η) = 0.
Method	From eqns. (17–19) of Part I8 and eqn. (6), such dependence can be written as follows:This equation shows that for η < 0.6 V, the origin ordinate is zero when the Tafel, Heyrovsky and Volmer steps are taking place simultaneously, with vHe > 10−14 mol s−1 cm−2.
Method	The other alternative is an origin ordinate with a positive value and corresponds to vHe < 10−14 mol s−1 cm−2.
Method	In this case, eqn. (9) is reduced to eqn. (14) of Part I.8
Method	An origin ordinate of jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) equal to zero implies that in eqn. (9) vHeeαfη ≫ vTe/(1 − θe).
Method	In this case the kinetic parameters can be evaluated from the correlation of the experimental dependence j(η,ω) through eqns. (1), (2) and (8), besides the use of the constants Rpo and B.
Method	The value of Rpo is obtained from the extrapolation of the experimental linear dependence Rp = f(ω−1/2), while B can be obtained from the slope of the straight lines jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) or Rp = f(ω−1/2).
Method	The adjustable parameters are vTe, vHe and θe, being the others (vVe and jL) evaluated from those obtained in the regression.
Method	A positive value of the origin ordinate of jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) implies that in eqn. (9) vHeeαfη ≪ vTe/(1 − θe), for η < 0.6 V. The inverse of this value is the maximum kinetic current density jmaxkin, which can be written as:Besides, neglecting vHe, eqn. (8) turns to be:
Method	The dependences given by eqns. (1) and (2), with vHe = 0, can be used together with eqn. (11) in the correlation of the experimental results.
Method	Therefore, the kinetic parameters to be obtained from the correlation of j(η,ω) and the use of the constants Rpo and B are vTe and θe, the other parameters being evaluated from them.
Method	The calculated values of the parameters vTe and θe can be used for the evaluation of the limiting kinetic current density, through eqn. (10).
Method	This value should be equal to that obtained from the extrapolation of the experimental dependence jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2).
Background	This is a self-consistency test for the evaluated parameters.
Method	An approximated method can be developed for the case described in the previous item when the equilibrium surface coverage of the adsorbed intermediate of the HER is very low and therefore it can be considered (1 − θe) ≅ 1.
Method	Using this approximation, the parameter vTe can be estimated from eqn. (10) and then vVe from eqn. (11).
Background	Therefore, approximated values of the kinetic parameters can be obtained in this way.
Method	The Levich–Koutecky method is usually employed for the evaluation of the dependence j(η) of the hor under activated control.11
Method	It consists in plotting the relationships j(η,ω)−1 = f(ω−1/2) at different overpotentials, which is supposed to be linear.
Method	The extrapolation of each straight line should give at the origin ordinate the inverse of j at such η, value that corresponds to the faradaic process.
Method	Once the dependence j(η) free from diffusion contribution is known, the usual procedure is applied for the evaluation of the kinetic parameters of the HER.
Method	Nevertheless, as has been demonstrated in Part I,8j(η,ω)−1 = f(ω−1/2) is not necessarily linear, with the exception of the overpotentials range in which j = jmax.
Method	Consequently, the linear extrapolation is only valid if the condition given in eqn. (20) of Part I is satisfied.8
Background	As the values of the kinetic parameters vTe, vHe, vVe and θe are unknown, it is impossible to verify a priori the applicability of the Levich–Koutecky method and therefore, its use is not recommended.
Problem	The methodology proposed above is applied to the evaluation of the kinetic parameters of the HER from experimental results obtained for the molecular hydrogen oxidation on a platinum RDE.
Method	The experimental determination of the dependence j(η) for the hydrogen oxidation reaction on steady state was carried out on a rotating disc electrode made of polycrystalline smooth platinum (0.07 cm2 geometric area).
Method	The rotation rate was varied in the range 900 ≤ ω/rpm ≤ 8100, using a Tacussel rotating disc equipment.
Method	The electrolyte solution was 0.5 M H2SO4, which was subjected to a continuous and efficient hydrogen bubbling at P = 1 atm.
Method	The counterelectrode was a large area Pt electrode and the working temperature was fixed at 30 °C.
Method	The applied overpotential was varied in the range −0.05 ≤ η/V ≤ 0.40, controlled against a hydrogen electrode reference in the same electrolyte solution.
Method	Measurements were made using a potentiostat–galvanostat Radiometer, controlled by the generation/acquisition software Voltamaster.
Background	Special attention was paid to the purity of the electrolyte solution as well as to ensure its saturation with molecular hydrogen during the experimental runs.
Background	These two aspects are critical in order to obtain reproducible results.
Method	The verification of the solution purity was made through the application of two consecutive steps of potentiostatic adsorption under nitrogen bubbling at 0.4 V for 5 min and 0.0 V for another 5 min, respectively.
Method	Then, without interrupting the electric circuit, a potentiodynamic sweep in the anodic direction (up to 1.5 V) was applied, returning to 0.0 V and after that applying repetitive cycles between these limiting potential values.
Method	The purity of the solution is determined by the absence of voltammetric peaks due to electro-oxidation processes different from those characteristics of the Pt electrode and/or the inhibition of the peaks related to the adsorption/desorption of hydrogen.
Method	In order to ensure reproducible results in the evaluation of the experimental dependence j(η), the potential program shown in Fig. 1a was applied.
Method	The electrode potential was held at 1.50 V for 4 s in order to oxidise any adsorbed potentially polluting substance, ensuring a reproducible initial condition.
Method	Then, a step was applied to the desired overpotential value, which was maintained for 30 s.
Method	During this period, readings of the current value were made every 2 s and the mean value of the last 20 s was assigned to this overpotential.
Method	After each measuring step, the corresponding oxidation step was applied.
Result	The current (I) values obtained from the application of the potential program described in the previous paragraph can be observed in Fig. 1b for the case corresponding to a rotation rate of 1600 rpm.
Result	These results exhibit an excellent reproducibility when the solution is appropriately purified and the condition of hydrogen saturation is maintained during the whole run.
Result	The dependences j(η) are shown in Fig. 2a, where different types of symbols were used for the different ω values.
Problem	According to the methodology proposed in the present work, the value of the origin ordinate of the dependence jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) should be determined.
Result	This dependence was evaluated from the experimental results shown in Fig. 2a and is illustrated in Fig. 3.
Result	An origin ordinate definitively finite, equal to jmaxkin−1 = 4.15 A−1 cm2, was calculated from the linear regression.
Conclusion	This result indicates that the HER operates through the Tafel–Volmer route, with a negligible contribution of the Heyrovsky step in the domain of overpotentials analysed.8
Result	Besides, the value B = 0.068 mA cm−2 rpm−1/2 was obtained from the slope of the straight line of Fig. 3.
Method	Furthermore, starting from the values of the current density measured near the equilibrium potential (−0.05 ≤ η/V ≤ 0.05), the equilibrium polarisation resistance [Rp = dη/dj∣η=0] was evaluated for each rotating rate.
Method	In order to obtain it, the dependence j(η) at a given ω was adjusted with a third-order polynomial, the first order coefficient being the Rp value.
Result	It can be observed in Fig. 4 that the dependence Rp = f(ω−1/2) has the linear variation predicted by eqn. (5).
Result	The values Rpo = 0.546 Ω cm2 and B = 0.063 mA cm−2 rpm−1/2 were obtained from the origin ordinate and the slope, respectively, of the corresponding linear regression.
Result	It can be noted that there is an agreement between this B value and the one evaluated from the slope of Fig. 3, corresponding to two clearly different and independent experimental determinations.
Result	Fig. 3 corresponds to data measured for η > 0.2 V while Fig. 4 was obtained from data measured near the equilibrium potential.
Result	The experimental dependence j(η,ω) was correlated with eqns. (1), (2) and (8), using the constant values B = 0.068 mA cm−2 rpm−1/2 and Rpo = 0.546 Ω cm2 obtained from Figs. 3 and 4, respectively.
Background	It should be noted that the fitting was made with only two adjustable parameters, vTe and θe, the other kinetic parameters (vVe and jL) being evaluated from them.
Result	The results obtained are summarised in Table 1, for each value of the rotation rate.
Result	The values of jL obtained from eqn. (6) have also been included.
Result	It can be appreciated that the resulting values of vVe, vTe and θe for the different ω, are quite similar.
Background	In this sense, it should be borne in mind that the fittings were made on data obtained from independent experimental runs corresponding to seven different rotation rate values.
Result	The descriptive capability of the evaluated kinetic parameters is illustrated in Fig. 2a (continuous lines).
Background	It should be noted that these lines were calculated using only one set of parameters, corresponding to the average of the seven values obtained from each fitting (Table 1).
Conclusion	These results demonstrate that the description of the hydrogen electrode reaction made through the kinetic study of the hydrogen oxidation reaction was adequate and self-consistent.
Result	Fig. 2b shows the dependence θ(η) calculated with this set of parameters for the less and the greater experimental ω values and for the limiting case of activated control corresponding to ω = ∞ (continuous line).
Result	A large variation of the surface coverage can be observed with the rotation rate at a given overpotential.
Conclusion	According to the results described above and taking into account that for platinum it can be considered (1 − θe) ≅ 1, the approximated method can also be used.12
Background	As was indicated in subsection (b1), vTe can be estimated from eqn. (10) and then vVe can be evaluated from eqn. (11).
Method	The constant values jmaxkin−1 and Rpo needed for the calculations were obtained from Figs. 3 and 4, respectively.
Result	The corresponding values of vTe and vVe obtained in this way are shown in Table 1 (second column).
Problem	Finally, the applicability of the Levich–Koutecky method was analysed.
Background	It has been demonstrated that this alternative is limited by the fulfilment of the condition given in eqn. (20) of Part I.8
Result	In the present case, as vHe ≅ 0, the condition is the following:Taking the most favourable value of jL (0.01 A cm−2), the condition of eqn. (11) is not fulfilled.
Conclusion	Consequently, the Levich–Koutecky method is not applicable for this case.
Conclusion	This result is in agreement with the marked effect of the rotation rate on the surface coverage at constant potential, which is shown in Fig. 2b.
Background	As has already been demonstrated, Levich–Koutecky plot can be applied only if θ(η) is invariant with jL8.
Problem	Starting from the kinetic expressions derived in the first part of this work, a methodology for the evaluation of the kinetic parameters of the hydrogen electrode reaction for the Tafel–Heyrovsky–Volmer mechanism from experimental data of the hydrogen oxidation on a rotating disc electrode has been proposed.
Method	Although the method consisted basically in the correlation of the experimental dependence j(η,ω), other relationships were used in order to decrease the number of adjustable parameters as well as to improve the evaluation.
Method	The first one is the relationship between the limiting diffusional current density and the rotation rate (eqn. (6)).
Method	The second one is the relationship between Rpo and the equilibrium reaction rates of the elementary steps (eqn. (7)).
Method	Thus, the adjustable parameters are three (vTe, vHe and θe) and the others are obtained from them.
Method	Finally, in the case when the origin ordinate of jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) is positive, a third constraint is generated (vHe ≅ 0).
Method	In this case the adjustable parameters are reduced to two (vTe and θe).
Problem	This methodology was applied for the analysis of the experimental results obtained for the hydrogen oxidation reaction on a platinum RDE.
Result	The dependence jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) has a finite origin ordinate for this electrode, which means that the maximum kinetic current density jmaxkin for the hor is finite.
Conclusion	This result indicates that the hydrogen oxidation is verified under the Tafel–Volmer route (vHe < 10−14 mol s−1 cm−2).
Background	This dependence was adjusted in several works13–16 by straight lines passing through zero, although it could be clearly observed that this was not the best linear correlation, as was already pointed out by Yeager et al.17
Result	Furthermore, a finite value of jmaxkin implies that, at least in the overpotentials range analysed, the maximum current density is different from the limiting diffusional current density, although in the present case the difference is small.
Result	On the other hand, jmaxkin can also be evaluated from eqn. (10) using the mean value of vTe illustrated in Table 1, the resulting value is jmaxkin = 0.264 A cm−2, which is quite similar to that (jmaxkin = 0.241 A cm−2) obtained from the origin ordinate of Fig. 3.
Problem	An attempt was made in order to show by a different method the finite value of jmaxkin.
Method	Two alternatives are proposed, which correspond to different rearranging of eqn. (9), with vHe ≅ 0 and taking into account eqn. (10):The parameter jmaxkin can be evaluated from both eqns. (13) and (14).
Method	Taking into account that the equality jmax(ω) = jL(ω) is fulfilled only if jmaxkin → ∞ (or vTe → ∞), then in this case the slope obtained for the application of eqn. (13) should be null and that corresponding to the application of eqn. (14) should be infinite.
Result	Figs. 5 and 6 illustrate the experimental dependences corresponding to eqns. (13) and (14), respectively.
Result	It can be observed that, within the dispersion of the experimental points, the value of jmaxkin is finite and the corresponding slopes are different from zero and infinite, respectively.
Result	Besides, it should be noted that the straight lines shown in both Figs. 5 and 6 are not the corresponding linear regressions.
Result	They are the result of the application of eqns. (13) and (14), respectively, using the values of jmaxkin and B obtained from the linear regression illustrated in Fig. 3.
Conclusion	These results should contribute to demonstrate that the relationship jmax−1 = f(ω−1/2) has a finite origin ordinate.
Conclusion	All the results described above confirm that the Tafel–Volmer route determines the behaviour of the HER on platinum electrodes, with vHe < 10−14 mol s−1 cm−2.
Result	It should also be noted that the dependence θ(η) has a unique solution, a behaviour that is not observed in the HER under activated control.18
Result	Besides, the surface coverage decreases monotonically from θe and takes very low values.
Conclusion	This behaviour justifies the description of the adsorbed intermediate through the Langmuir isotherm.
Background	Finally, it is known that the hydrogen oxidation on platinum is produced on the electrode surface covered by adsorbed hydrogen of the UPD (under potential deposition) type.19
Conclusion	Nevertheless, the experimental results indicate that this type of adsorbed hydrogen does not affect the maximum current density on steady state.
Conclusion	Therefore, it can be inferred that the type of adsorbed hydrogen that participates in the hor as the reaction intermediate is different from the H(UPD).

Problem	Infrared spectrum of the NH4-dn+ cation trapped in solid neon
Result	The NH4+ cation has been stabilized in solid neon in sufficient concentration for the identification of both of its infrared-active vibrational fundamentals, which appear within a few wavenumbers of the gas-phase band centers.
Result	Systematic alteration of the concentrations and positions of introduction of NH3 and H2 in the discharge sampling experiments demonstrated that the highest yield of NH4+ resulted when both the NH3 and the H2 were introduced downstream from a discharge through pure neon.
Result	In this configuration, each of these molecules can be ionized by excited neon atoms and their resonance radiation (16.6 eV to 16.85 eV), but fragmentation is minimized.
Result	Both infrared-active vibrational fundamentals of ND4+ and several fundamentals of each of the partially deuterium-substituted isotopomers of NH4+ were also identified.
Conclusion	Evidence is presented for complexation of NH4+ with an H atom or with one or more H2 molecules.
Background	Because of the chemical and biological importance of the ammonium cation, NH4+, there have been many observations of its infrared absorption spectrum in the strongly interacting environments of ionic crystals and polar solvents.
Background	In contrast, studies of its spectroscopic behavior in the absence of these interactions are sparse.
Background	The first gas-phase observations of NH4+ were concurrent studies by Crofton and co-workers1,2 and by Schäfer and co-workers,3,4 which yielded the assignment of the infrared-active stretching fundamental, ν3.
Background	The other infrared-active fundamental of gas-phase NH4+, ν4, was later observed in diode laser studies.5,6
Background	Crofton and co-workers2 also analyzed the ν3 band of ND4+, and, in a study of the zero-kinetic-energy photoelectron spectrum of ND4, Signorell and co-workers7 obtained the rotational constant of ground-state ND4+ with an uncertainty of 0.004 cm−1.
Background	Except for the analysis of one vibrational fundamental of NH3D+ by Nakanaga and Amano,8 there have been no experimental studies of the partially deuterium-substituted ammonium cations.
Background	The CCSD(T)/cc-pVTZ ab initio calculations, including anharmonic corrections, by Martin and Lee9 of the vibrational fundamentals of NH4+ and all of its deuterium-substituted isotopomers provide tentative information regarding the spectroscopic properties of these species.
Background	Experiments in this laboratory have led to the stabilization of a number of small molecular ions in concentration sufficient for infrared identification.10
Background	In the study of the infrared spectrum of NH3+,11 a weak absorption appeared near the position of the ν4 fundamental of gas-phase NH4+, 1447.22 cm−1.5,6
Problem	In order to determine whether this peak was indeed contributed by NH4+ and, if so, to optimize the conditions for NH4+ production, further studies were conducted using several different sampling configurations and introducing additional H2 into the system.
Conclusion	As will be shown in the following discussion, not only did these studies confirm the identification of NH4+, but they yielded the first spectroscopic identification of ν4 of ND4+ and of many of the vibrational fundamentals of the partially deuterium-substituted isotopomers.
Method	The ammonia samples used for these studies were the same as had been used for the previous series of experiments11 concerned with the identification of isotopomers of NH3+.
Method	These samples were freed of relatively volatile impurities by freezing at 77 K and pumping on the resulting solid.
Method	The H2 and D2 (Matheson Gas Products, Inc)., HD (97%, Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Inc)., and neon (Spectra Gases, Inc., Research Grade, 99.999%) were used without further purification.
Method	Sample mixtures were prepared using standard vacuum procedures.
Method	A number of initial experiments were conducted in order to establish optimal conditions for the stabilization of NH4+ and its isotopomers.
Method	For these studies, the concentrations of the reactants were varied.
Method	The concentrations which will be given in the description of the initial experiments were representative.
Result	The optimum Ne : H2 : NH3 mole ratio was found to be 400 : 6 : 1.
Method	After this had been established, more detailed isotopic substitution studies were conducted at a Ne : H2-dm : NH3-dn mole ratio of 400 : 6 : 1 or 400 : 5 : 1.
Result	Isotopically enriched ammonia undergoes significant isotopic exchange with ammonia which has previously been adsorbed on the walls of deposition line.
Result	The extent of isotopic enrichment improved as a series of experiments on a given isotopically enriched sample proceeded.
Result	Flowing some of the sample mixture through the deposition system and cell before the cell was cooled for the experiment enhanced the extent of isotopic enrichment.
Method	A Helitran (APD Cryogenics.
Method	Inc). continuous transfer liquid helium cell maintained at 4.3 K was used for all of the experiments.
Method	The deposition configuration has previously been described,13 as has been the setup used for microwave excitation.14
Method	In typical ion production experiments, pure neon is subjected to a microwave discharge while it passes through a quartz tube that has a coarse pinhole in the end.
Method	The molecule of interest, mixed with a large excess of neon, is introduced into the cell slightly beyond the discharge tube, and the excited neon atoms and their resonance radiation interact with the molecule outside the pinhole and on the cryogenic surface.
Method	In some of the preliminary experiments, the two deposition lines were interchanged, so that the ammonia-containing mixture passed through the microwave discharge and additional neon was introduced into the sample without exposure to the discharge.
Method	In a few experiments, a small concentration of H2 was added to the neon sample flowing through the discharge tube.
Method	The absorption spectra of the sample deposits were obtained using a Bomem DA3.002 Fourier transform interferometer with transfer optics that have been described previously.15
Method	Observations were conducted with a resolution of 0.2 cm−1 between 400 and 5000 cm−1 using a globar source, a KBr beamsplitter, and a wide-band HgCdTe detector cooled to 77 K. Data were accumulated for each spectrum over a period of at least 15 min.
Method	The resulting spectrum was ratioed against a similar one taken without a deposit on the cryogenic mirror.
Result	Under these conditions, the positions of the prominent, nonblended atmospheric water vapor lines between 1385 and 1900 cm−1 and between 3620 and 3900 cm−1, observed in a calibration scan, agreed to within 0.01 cm−1 with the high-resolution values reported by Toth.16,17
Result	Based on previous investigations, with this experimental configuration the standard uncertainty (type B) in the determination of the positions of absorption maxima for molecules trapped in solid neon is ±0.1 cm−1 (coverage factor, k = 1, i.e., 1σ).
Method	Information on photoinduced changes in the matrix sample was obtained by exposing the deposit to various wavelength ranges of visible and ultraviolet radiation.
Method	For a few studies, a tungsten background source was used with a 780 nm (Schott glass type RG780) or a 630 nm (Corning glass type 2403) short-wavelength cutoff filter.
Method	Since no changes were detected in the product spectra under those irradiation conditions, most of the sample irradiations were conducted using a medium-pressure mercury arc with a filter of Corning glass type 3384, 3389 or 7740 or without a filter to provide a short-wavelength cutoff of approximately 490, 420, 280 or 250 nm, respectively.
Problem	The initial experiments were focused on determining the conditions that produce the greatest intensity of the product absorption which was previously detected11 at 1442.5 cm−1 when a Ne : NH3 sample was codeposited with a beam of discharged neon atoms.
Result	The results of these experiments are summarized in Fig. 1.
Method	The initial strategy was to pass the Ne : NH3 mixture, rather than pure neon, through the microwave discharge and, to improve the isolation of the products in the solid deposit, diluting the discharged material with an approximately equal amount of pure neon that had not been excited in the discharge.
Background	Similar conditions have been used in many laboratories to produce molecular fragments for spectroscopic study.
Result	As is shown in trace (a), a weak absorption at 1442.5 cm−1 resulted.
Result	When a mixture with a greater concentration of NH3 was used, as in trace (b), a somewhat more intense product absorption appeared.
Method	Since the isolation properties of the neon matrix would be likely to degrade at still higher concentrations of NH3, the introduction of H2 was next tried.
Method	The first such study, shown in trace (c), involved passing a Ne : H2 : NH3 = 400 : 4 : 1 mixture through the microwave discharge.
Result	Further enhancement of the 1442.5 cm−1 absorption resulted.
Result	When, as in trace (d), a still higher concentration of H2 was present in the sample mixture, the 1442.5 cm−1 peak and satellite absorptions at 1441.2 and 1440.9 cm−1 grew still more.
Result	In the experiments of traces (b) through (d), a new absorption at 3357.5 cm−1 appeared and grew in prominence.
Result	It was not feasible to increase the H2 concentration in the mixture passed through the discharge tube beyond about 2.5%, the value employed for the experiment of trace (d); at higher concentrations spontaneous warmups of the deposit frequently occurred.
Method	The experiment of trace (e) more closely followed the procedure which has typically been used for ion production studies in this laboratory.
Method	The Ne : NH3 mixture was introduced into the system downstream from the discharge region.
Method	A Ne : H2 = 39 mixture was passed through the microwave discharge, providing a source not only of excited neon atoms and their resonance radiation but also of H atoms and undissociated H2.
Method	Although care had been taken to match the sample size and deposition time in the other experiments in this comparison, only a limited amount of liquid helium was available to conduct the experiment shown in trace (e).
Result	Despite the smaller sample size, both the absorption pattern near 1442.5 cm−1 and that near 3357.5 cm−1 were more prominent than in the earlier studies.
Method	Finally, an experiment was conducted using an undischarged Ne : H2 : NH3 = 400 : 6 : 1 sample mixture and passing pure neon through the microwave discharge.
Result	As is shown in trace (f) of Fig. 1, the absorptions of interest were approximately doubled in intensity, compared to those of trace (e).
Method	Subsequent experiments were conducted using the same sampling configuration and approximately the same concentrations in the sample mixture as had been used for the experiment of trace (f).
Result	The assignment of the absorption at 1442.5 cm−1 to the ν4 fundamental of NH4+ is supported not only by its proximity to the gas-phase band center of that species but also by the enhancement in its intensity as hydrogen is added to the system.
Result	The absorption at 3357.5 cm−1 and a less intense absorption at 3361.0 cm−1 that grow at a rate proportional to that of the structured 1442.5 cm−1 absorption in the experiments summarized by Fig. 1 lie suitably close to the 3343.14 cm−1 gas-phase band center1–4 of ν3 of NH4+ for the corresponding assignment.
Background	A series of molecular beam studies by Dopfer, Maier and co-workers, recently reviewed by Bieske and Dopfer,18 have shown that the H-stretching vibrational band centers of complexes of the rare gases with protonated molecules are often shifted to appreciably lower frequencies because of proton sharing with the rare gas atom.
Result	However, the proton affinity of NH3 is relatively high, and the ν3 band center of gas-phase NH4+ complexed to a single neon atom appears at 3344.0 cm−1,19 very close to the band center for the uncomplexed cation.
Result	When both NH3 and H2 are present in the sample deposit, the detailed structure of the infrared absorptions of the NH3 differs from that characteristic of simple Ne : NH3 deposits.20,21
Conclusion	This phenomenon is attributed to complex formation between H2 and NH3, previously reported by Moroz and co-workers.22
Conclusion	Further discussion of perturbations to the spectrum of NH3 is beyond the scope of the present study.
Result	In the experiment of Fig. 1(f), as well as in the other experiments here reported, the presence of H2 or its isotopomers greatly inhibits the stabilization of NH3+ or its isotopomers.
Result	All of the absorptions shown in Fig. 1 except that of NH3 at 3350 cm−1 were somewhat diminished in intensity when the sample was exposed for a few minutes to mercury-arc radiation of wavelength longer than 490 nm and were destroyed when a 420 nm cutoff filter was instead used or the filter was removed during the irradiation.
Result	The absorptions of ammonia showed little or no change as a result of this irradiation.
Result	Still further support for the assignment of the 1442.5 and 3357.5 cm−1 neon-matrix absorptions to the two infrared-active vibrational fundamentals of NH4+ has been obtained from experiments on isotopically substituted samples.
Result	In addition, these experiments have yielded the first infrared spectroscopic data for several isotopomers of NH4+.
Result	As is shown in Table 1, the 1442.5 and 3357.5 cm−1 neon-matrix absorptions also agree well with the positions obtained for these two vibrational fundamentals of NH4+ in the CCSD(T)/cc-pVTZ calculations including anharmonic corrections by Martin and Lee.9
Background	Although these workers obtained vibrational fundamental frequencies for all of the 14NH4-dn+ species, estimates of their relative intensities were not reported.
Method	Since these would also be helpful in the assignments and since some of the experiments were conducted using ammonia samples which were enriched in nitrogen-15, we performed calculations for the various isotopomers of the ammonium cation at the RMP2/6-311++G(3df,3pd) level using the Gaussian 98 program package.23
Result	The intensities estimated for the vibrational fundamentals of the 14NH4-dn+species by these calculations are included, in parentheses, in Table 1.
Result	Assignments of observed absorptions are also summarized.
Result	The observations leading to these assignments are described in the following discussion.
Problem	NH3D+ should have two relatively prominent deformation fundamentals, one only slightly shifted from the triply degenerate deformation fundamental of NH4+, the other near 1278.6 cm−1.
Result	The latter spectral region is shown in Fig. 2.
Result	As is shown in trace (a), from the same experiment on a Ne : H2 : NH3 sample as that illustrated in Fig. 1(f), when the sample was not enriched with deuterium no absorption appeared between 1265 and 1280 cm−1.
Result	In another experiment in which HD was substituted for H2, shown in trace (b) of Fig. 2, a weak, photosensitive new absorption appeared at 1277.3 cm−1.
Result	The absorption pattern near 1442.5 cm−1 was unchanged from that obtained using H2.
Result	In the NH-stretching region, a photosensitive absorption with a high frequency shoulder appeared at 3353.7 cm−1.
Result	In still another experiment using D2 instead of H2, shown in Fig. 2(c), the 1277.3 cm−1 absorption appeared with slightly lower intensity and was accompanied by several photosensitive lower frequency absorptions, the most prominent of them at 1274.8, 1273.1, 1272.4 and 1270.9 cm−1.
Result	Because of the facile isotopic exchange of ND3 in the vacuum system, spectra obtained in experiments with more extensive deuterium enrichment are quite complicated.
Result	Various spectral regions in which most of the product absorptions appear are shown in Figs. 3–8.
Result	Each of these figures shows the results from the same set of four experiments, arranged in the order of increasing deuterium enrichment.
Result	The traces labeled (a) were obtained for the same sample as that used for Fig. 1(f) and for Fig. 2(a), with no deuterium enrichment.
Result	The traces labeled (b) were obtained in an experiment on a Ne : H2 : ND3 : NH3 = 400 : 5 : 0.7 : 0.3 sample, those labeled (c) in a study of a Ne : H2 : ND3 = 400 : 5 : 1 sample, and those labeled (d) in a study of a Ne : D2 : ND3 sample.
Result	The latter sample achieved the highest extent of deuterium enrichment attained in this series of experiments.
Result	As is shown in Fig. 3(d), highly structured, photosensitive absorption appeared between 1085 and 1097 cm−1.
Result	The strongest absorption maximum was at 1092.0 cm−1, but absorptions at 1093.6 and 1093.1 cm−1 were only slightly weaker.
Result	Other relatively prominent absorptions appeared at 1091.6, 1089.7, 1088.3 and 1086.8 cm−1.
Result	The 1092.0 cm−1 absorption and its satellites lie close to the 1094.9 cm−1 position calculated for the previously unreported ν4 fundamental of ND4+.
Result	(Here and in the following discussion, all of the calculated positions for isotopomers of the ammonium cation – summarized in Table 1 – are those obtained in the study by Martin and Lee.9)
Result	The photosensitive absorption at 1103.4 cm−1, most prominent in traces (b) and (c) of Fig. 3, also lies close to the absorption of NHD3+ which is calculated to appear at 1101.0 cm−1.
Conclusion	Photosensitive absorptions at 1099.6 and 1094.6 cm−1 may possibly be contributed by the same fundamental of NHD3+.
Result	In the 1130 to 1150 cm−1 spectral region, shown in Fig. 4, a sharp, photosensitive absorption appeared at 1139.9 cm−1 in the experiments with a moderate extent of deuterium enrichment.
Result	This peak was accompanied by less well defined, photosensitive peaks at 1133.5 and 1131.6 cm−1.
Result	The correlation of the 1139.9 cm−1 peak with the 1140.6 cm−1 peak calculated for NHD3+ is evident.
Result	The 1260 to 1280 cm−1 spectral region is shown for these four samples in Fig. 5, which may be compared to the related observations for samples prepared using HD or D2 illustrated in Fig. 2.
Result	In the experiments of Fig. 5(b) and 5(c), as in those of Fig. 2(b) and 2(c), the most prominent photosensitive product absorption appears at 1277.3 cm−1, very close to the 1278.6 cm−1 position calculated for one of the vibrational fundamentals of NH3D+.
Result	Within the experimental error, the most prominent satellite absorptions, at 1273.2 and 1272.5 cm−1, correspond with relatively prominent peaks in the experiment of Fig. 2(c).
Result	As is shown in Fig. 6, a sharp, photosensitive absorption appears at 1365.9 cm−1 in the spectrum of samples with an intermediate extent of deuterium substitution.
Result	This peak corresponds well with the most intense deformation fundamental of NH2D2+, calculated to appear at 1363.5 cm−1.
Result	Satellite absorptions also appear at 1363.4 and 1357.0 cm−1.
Result	The 1430 to 1450 cm−1 spectral region is shown for this set of samples in Fig. 7.
Result	The photosensitive absorption at 1442.5 cm−1 and its less intense companions at 1441.2 and 1440.9 cm−1 decrease rapidly in intensity as the extent of deuterium substitution of the sample grows.
Result	A weak, photosensitive absorption appears at 1447.9 cm−1.
Result	Possibly this absorption is contributed by a deformation vibration of NH3D+, detectable at the concentration of NH3D+ achieved in the experiments shown in Fig. 7(b) and 7(c) but not in the experiments of Fig. 2(b) and 2(c).
Result	However, this identification is tentative.
Result	In the experiments of Fig. 7(b) and 7(c), a weak, sharp, photosensitive absorption also appeared at 1425.0 cm−1, close to the 1426.9 cm−1 position calculated for a deformation fundamental of NHD3+.
Result	The 2500 cm−1 spectral region, characteristic of the ND-stretching vibrations of both uncharged deuterium-substituted ammonia and the fully and partially deuterium substituted ammonium cation, shows a very complicated absorption spectrum.
Result	The most prominent photosensitive peak in the highest deuterium enrichment study lies at 2502.1 cm−1, in good agreement with the calculated position of 2492.0 cm−1 and the gas-phase band center2 observed at 2495.0 cm−1 for ν3 of ND4+.
Result	The 3340 to 3370 cm−1 absorption region, shown in Fig. 8, includes several NH-stretching absorptions of NH4+ and its partially deuterium-substituted isotopomers.
Result	In trace (a), the most prominent absorption is the photosensitive peak at 3357.5 cm−1, which has a less intense companion at 3361.0 cm−1.
Result	The major peak acquires a lower frequency counterpart at 3354.2 cm−1 when some deuterium is introduced into the ammonia molecule, as in traces (b) and (c).
Result	The assignment of that absorption to NH3D+ is consistent with the calculations and with the identification8 of the gas-phase band center of ν4 of NH3D+ at 3341.08 cm−1, 2.06 cm−1 below the position of the NH4+ stretching absorption.
Result	Although the peak at 3350.0 cm−1 did not decrease on mercury-arc irradiation of the deposits of traces (a) and (b), it did decrease in the experiment of trace (c), suggesting that in the latter experiment much or all of the absorption at that frequency arises from NH2D2+.
Result	In the experiments of traces (b) and (c), a photosensitive absorption (not shown in Fig. 8) also appeared at 3306.4 cm−1, a position appropriate for its assignment to the second NH-stretching fundamental of NH2D2+.
Method	Experiments were also conducted on samples prepared using 15NH3 and 15ND3.
Result	The results were analogous to those already described, except that each of the absorptions is shifted to a slightly lower frequency.
Result	In Table 2, the observed shifts are compared with those obtained from RMP2/6-311++G(3df,3pd) calculations.
Method	To correct for anharmonicity, each vibration calculated for the nitrogen-15 substituted cation was scaled by a factor derived from the ratio of the observed vibrational frequency for the nitrogen-14 substituted species to the corresponding calculated value.
Result	None of the observed isotopic shifts deviated from the calculated shift by more than 0.9 cm−1, providing further support for the proposed assignments.
Method	The results of all of the earlier studies in this laboratory using a beam of pure neon that had been passed through a microwave discharge are consistent with ion production by interaction of a suitable precursor with excited neon atoms and their resonance radiation, in the 16.6 to 16.85 eV energy range.
Method	Since those energies, for the first group of excited states of the neon atom, exceed the first ionization energy of both NH3 (10.17 eV 11,24) and H2 (15.43 eV 25), the two reactionsH2+ + NH3 → NH4+ + HandH2 + NH3+ → NH4+ + Hmay both occur in the region between the pinhole in the discharge tube and the cryogenic surface, as well as on the surface itself.
Problem	However, because of the large disparity between the values of the first ionization energies of H2 and NH3, collisional charge exchange between H2+ and NH3 is likely to occur.
Problem	Therefore, Reaction (2) would be likely to predominate.
Background	Early gas phase studies26,27 determined a relatively slow rate (k = 5 × 10−13 cm3 s−1) rate for Reaction (2) at room temperature.
Background	This rate increased as the temperature was raised, permitting estimation of an activation energy of 8.8 kJ mol−1 (2.1 kcal mol−1).
Background	When the reaction mixture was cooled, it was found28,29 that the rate levels off between 80 and 100 K. At lower temperatures, the rate increases again.30,31
Background	Studies of isotopically enriched samples determined29,32 that the rate of the reaction between D2 and NH3+ is only about 10% as great as that for H2 and NH3+.
Background	Several laboratories32–35 have also studied the comparative yields of NH3D+ and NH2D+ in the D2 + NH3+ system for various NH3+ vibrational energies and center-of-mass collision energies.
Background	Although NH3D+ is always the predominant product, at higher collision energies some NH2D+ is also formed.
Background	Herbst and co-workers36 obtained good agreement between their calculated rate coefficients and the values derived from the experimental data for a mechanism that postulated the initial formation of a NH3+⋯H2 complex, bound by 5.9(1.3) kJ mol−1, or 1.4(3) kcal mol−1, which has a long lifetime at low temperatures and decomposes by tunneling.
Background	The exit channel complex, NH4+⋯H, is bound by less than 3 kJ mol−1 and readily decomposes to form NH4+ + H. Their model is consistent with the observed reaction rates for the deuterium-substituted species.
Background	Herbst and co-workers also calculated the rates for the three-body reaction (which also involved a helium atom) and found that the results were compatible with other observations.30
Background	The three-body reaction differs by collisional stabilization of the NH3+⋯H2 complex, which is found still to be able to undergo tunneling to form the products on a time scale shorter than that of the observations.
Background	These conditions are likely to predominate during matrix depositions and in solid neon.
Problem	The structure observed for the vibrational fundamentals of the NH4-dn+ species may arise in part from the trapping of the molecules in various types of site in the solid neon.
Background	Site splittings have been observed for NH320,21 and for many other molecules trapped in the solid rare gases.
Conclusion	However, other phenomena must be invoked to explain the disparity between the absorption patterns observed for ν4 of NH4+ and ND4+.
Conclusion	The complicated vibrational absorption patterns observed in the present series of experiments might arise from molecular rotation.
Conclusion	Simple uncharged molecular hydrides usually can rotate in a neon matrix.
Background	The rotation of ammonia in solid neon has previously been studied.20,21
Background	High-resolution infrared observations37 of a very dilute Ne : CH4 sample suggested that although CH4, which is geometrically similar to NH4+, can rotate in argon and the heavier rare-gas matrices, it cannot rotate in solid neon.
Background	Beginning with the high-resolution observations by Momose and co-workers,38 the rotation of CH4 in solid parahydrogen has been extensively studied.
Background	At 4.8 K, the most prominent absorption of each of the two infrared-active vibrational fundamentals of CH4 is contributed by the R(0) transition.
Background	Other components of the rotational structure are symmetrically placed about it, with spacings of approximately 5 cm−1.
Result	Although, with appropriately smaller spacings, a similar pattern of absorptions is observed for ND4+, the pattern for NH4+ is quite different.
Result	Whether NH3+ and other ions of the simple hydrides can rotate in a neon matrix is not known with certainty.
Background	However, there is abundant evidence that the rotation of uncharged hydride molecules is suppressed in the presence of an ion field.11
Background	Therefore, other explanations for the observed structure must also be considered.
Problem	A major contributor to the observed structure is likely to be complexation of NH4+ by other species present in the matrix.
Result	The interaction energy for the NH4+⋯NH3 pair39 is relatively large, but in the present experiments the probability of collisional interaction between NH3 and NH4+ is much smaller than that between H2 and NH4+.
Conclusion	At the H2 concentrations necessary to obtain an appreciable yield of NH4+, the stabilization of that species with one or more nearest neighbor H2 molecules is highly probable.
Background	Calculations by Urban and co-workers40 indicate that up to eight H2 molecules can complex with NH4+.
Background	The first solvation shell is filled by four H2 molecules, each oriented with its axis perpendicular to that of the NH bond with which it interacts.
Background	At the MP4 level, the solvation energy of each of these four H2 molecules is approximately 10 kJ mol−1 (2.4 kcal mol−1).
Background	When deuterium atoms are introduced into the system, interactions with HD and with D2 will also occur, resulting in small changes in the infrared absorption pattern.
Result	Because of the several possible interactions, the absorption pattern in the deuterium-substitution experiments may become quite complex, as is observed.
Problem	The calculations by Herbst and co-workers36 indicate that the transition state for the reaction between NH3+ and H2 rearranges into a weakly bound NH4+⋯H complex, raising the possibility that this entrance channel complex may also contribute to the observed spectrum.
Problem	Some of the H atoms are likely to be formed with sufficient kinetic energy to escape from the site of their production.
Problem	However, the presence of an abundance of neon atoms will encourage collisional deactivation of the initially formed complex.
Result	The results of calculations of the positions of the vibrational fundamentals of NH4+ and ND4+ complexed with a single H or D atom, performed at the UMP2/6-311++G(3df,3pd) level using the Gaussian 03 program package,41 are summarized in Table 3.
Result	The reduction in symmetry from Td to C3v because of complex formation leads to a splitting of approximately 40 cm−1 in the infrared-active NH-stretching vibration and 8 cm−1 in the infrared-active deformation vibration.
Result	The magnitudes of these splittings are independent of whether an H atom or a D atom participates in the complex.
Result	The calculated splitting of the deformation vibration could explain some of the observed structure.
Result	However, a lower frequency component of the NH-stretching fundamental was not identified.
Result	Such an absorption may have been obscured by one of the prominent absorptions of the photolytically stable NH3⋯(H2)n species which appeared in these experiments at 3314, 3319 and 3333 cm−1.
Conclusion	Therefore, the contribution of infrared absorptions of the exit channel complex to the observed spectrum remains uncertain.
Conclusion	As in the earlier study of the infrared spectrum of NH3+,11 the identity of the anion(s) which provide for the requisite overall charge neutrality of the sample deposit is not revealed by the present experiments, presumably because these species are weak infrared absorbers.
Conclusion	A leading candidate would be NH2−, which is calculated42 to have its bending vibration fundamental in the same spectral region as that of ν4 of NH4+.
Conclusion	However, the two stretching fundamentals of NH2− are calculated42,43 to lie between 3100 and 3200 cm−1 and to be much more strongly infrared absorbing than the bending fundamental.
Result	The experimentally determined band centers of these stretching fundamentals lie at 3121.93 and 3190.29 cm−1.44,45
Result	In the present experiments, no new absorptions were detected in that spectral region.
Result	A considerably higher yield of NH4+ is obtained in cryogenic sampling experiments when NH3 and H2 are introduced into the system downstream from neon atoms that are excited in a microwave discharge than when either molecule is introduced into the discharge region.
Conclusion	Since extensive atomization occurs in discharges, the predominant source of NH4+ in these experiments is believed to be the reaction of NH3+ with H2.
Result	The neon-matrix shifts in the infrared-active vibrational fundamentals of NH4+ are smaller than 0.5%.
Result	These experiments have yielded the first identifications of the ν4 vibrational fundamental of ND4+ and of several of the vibrational fundamentals of each of the partially deuterated ammonium cations.
Conclusion	Complexation of H atoms and of H2 with the NH4-dn+ is believed to be a major contributor to the satellite absorptions which appear close to each of the fundamental absorptions of the NH4-dn+ species trapped in the neon matrix.

Problem	The effect of hydrogen-bonding on the ultrafast electronic deactivation dynamics of indigo carmine
Problem	Excited-state dynamics and mechanisms of the rapid deactivation process of indigo carmine (InC) were investigated by means of femtosecond transient absorption spectroscopy and steady-state Raman spectroscopy.
Conclusion	Solvent dependence of the excited-state lifetime revealed that intermolecular hydrogen-bonding with the solvent molecule is more effective than the intramolecular ones to accelerate the deactivation process.
Result	Steady-state Raman spectra in the low-frequency region indicated a loss of molecular planarity in protic solvents.
Conclusion	It was concluded that the hydrogen-bonding in the excited state, which leads to the twisting around the central CC bond and/or to the out-of-plane deformation, was of crucial importance in the rapid deactivation.
Background	Indigo is one of the natural dyestuffs utilized by human beings from the dawn of civilization.
Background	The description “indigo” can refer either to the blue dyestuff obtained from several species of plants, or to the chemical compound accountable for the color.
Background	In this report, it represents the latter.
Background	The Nobel Prize in 1905 was awarded to a German research chemist, A. von Baeyer, for the synthesis and the structural formulation of indigo.1,2
Background	Influenced by this success, search for artificial indigo derivative with superior chemical properties took place and the first artificial derivative, thioindigo, was synthesized in .19063
Method	It is well known that thioindigo and other indigo-derivatives shown in Scheme 1 (a) undergo photochromism, i.e., reversible trans–cis isomerization around the central CC bond on photo-excitation.4–9
Background	However, for indigo (X = NH) itself, photo-isomerization and/or the cis-form have never been observed.
Background	On the basis of the peculiar molecular structure enabling intramolecular hydrogen(H)-bonds between the two adjacent pairs of carbonyl and NH groups,10–13 two possibilities were considered as the origin of the absence of photo-isomerization; (1) double intramolecular H-bonds “lock” the molecular structure in planer trans-form, or (2) intramolecular proton-transfer from the NH group to the carbonyl group occurs on the excited state prior to the isomerization, which leads back to the trans-configuration in the ground state.14,15
Background	For highly fluorescent thioindigo, it is generally accepted that trans → cis isomerization takes place through triplet intermediate.15–21
Background	It was concluded that the planar trans configuration is in thermal equilibrium with the twisted configuration in the T1 state.20
Background	T1 state is also considered to be the intermediate in the case of N,N′-dimethylindigo.22
Background	Intersystem crossing is usually a slow process which can be inhibited by a faster reaction channel.
Background	Elsaesser and coworkers have carried out time-resolved picosecond fluorescence and IR spectroscopy of 4,4′,7,7′-tetramethylindigo, a indigo derivative that can form intramolecular H-bonds.23
Background	They concluded that proton transfer does not occur in the first excited electronic state from the following experimental results, (a) their time-resolved IR spectra revealed that the NH stretching in the S1 state was shifted to lower frequency only by 40 cm−1 compared to the ground state, (b) no evidence of a transient OH band was found around 3200 cm−1 in the excited molecule, (c) the CO stretching mode at 1640 cm−1 remained virtually unchanged upon photo-excitation and (d) the steady state fluorescence spectrum was Stokes shifted only by 900 cm−1 which was rather too small for a fluorescence form a proton transferred tautamor which can be as large as ∼10 000 cm−1.
Background	Although, there are many reports on excited state intramolecular proton transfer (ESIPT) taking place from phenolic –OH group to the H-bonded adjacent –N group, i.e., 2-(2′-hydroxy-5′-methylphenyl)benzotriazole,24,25 2-(2′-hydroxyphenyl)benzothiazole,26,27 and 10-hydroxybenzo[h]quinoline,28 we could not find any report on ESIPT from NH group to CO group.
Background	Intramolecular H-bond forming 5- or 6-membered ring is considered to be strong, because of the good overlap of the molecular orbitals.29
Problem	If the isomerization of indigo is blocked by the intramolecular H-bond bridge, formation of intermolecular H-bonds with the solvent may break the bridge and lead to photo-isomerization.
Background	However, addition of alcohols to the solution of photochromic indigo dyes is known to quench the fluorescence and diminish the isomerization.30–32
Background	It was concluded that intermolecular H-bond opens a rapid nonradiative deactivation channel to the trans-formed ground state by transferring the energy to the solvent bath through the H-bond.30
Background	In the case of indigo, which is only weakly fluorescent, intramolecular H-bonds are suggested to provide a channel for the rapid radiationless deactivation.32,33
Background	For 4,4′,7,7′-tetramethylindigo in chloroform, the fluorescence lifetime was only 30 ps and the overtones of the NH stretching mode and the out-of-plane deformation mode were considered to be the decay channels for the rapid internal conversion.23
Background	Another H-bonded system that exhibits rapid nonradiative decay without formation of any detectable intermediate is the intermolecular H-bonded 1-pyrenol-pyridine system.34
Background	It was concluded that, immediately after the electron-transfer form 1-pyrenol to pyridine, a large scale and ultrafast proton shift takes place which induces an ultrafast nonradiative crossing to the ground state.
Background	Hydrogen-bonding is one of the most important topics in chemistry and in molecular biology.
Background	H-bonds in the excited state are known to mediate not only proton transfer but also electron transfer.35,36
Background	However, the role of H-bonds in energy deactivation and dissipation is not well understood.
Problem	The ultrafast deactivation channel of indigo can be utilized as a model of energy dissipation and related structural reorganization in much complicated H-bonding systems.
Background	It is needless to say that H-bonds determine the structure and dynamics of protic liquids like water as well as of biopolymers like protein and DNA.
Problem	Here we report a study on ultrafast deactivation process of indigo carmine (InC) to elucidate the relation between deactivation dynamics and intra-/intermolecular H-bonding.
Background	InC is a trans-indigo derivative which can form intramolecular double H-bonds as shown in Scheme 1(b).
Background	We have chosen this molecule because of its high solubility in protic solvents compared to indigo.
Background	It is also reported that InC forms solute/solvent complexes with methanol and water because of its solvent dependence of the absorption and emission spectrum.37
Problem	Solvent dependence of the excited state lifetime was carefully examined by ultrafast time-resolved spectroscopy.
Problem	Steady-state resonance Raman measurement was also carried out to elucidate the solvent dependence of the molecular structure of InC.
Method	The details of the home-made cavity-dumped Kerr lens mode-locked Cr : forsterite laser and the femtosecond pump–probe measurement setup were reported elsewhere.38
Method	The repetition rate of the cavity-dumping was 100 kHz and the output was focused into a LBO crystal to generate the second harmonic centered at 630–640 nm.
Method	The second harmonic pulse energy was 4 nJ and the FWHM was calculated to be 27 fs.
Method	The beam was divided into pump and probe pulses by a 50% beam splitter.
Method	The energy of the pump pulse was 0.6–0.8 nJ and that of the probe pulse was attenuated to 60–80 pJ by a ND filter.
Method	The pulses were focused into the sample by a 10 cm focusing lens.
Method	The pump–probe signals were detected at a magic angle polarization with a photodiode coupled to a lock-in amplifier.
Method	The sample path length was 0.5 mm and the absorbance of the sample was set to 1.0 at ∼610 nm, i.e., the peak of the absorption.
Method	In this experiment, signal intensity was measured in terms of transmittance difference, ΔT.
Method	The measured ΔT was regarded to be equivalent to absorbance difference, ΔAbs, because the signals were very weak, i.e., the ΔAbs was less than 10−4 for our experimental condition.
Method	Transient absorption measurement with 120 fs time-resolution was carried out utilizing a dual OPA femtosecond laser system based on a Ti : sapphire laser.
Background	The details of the system were described elsewhere.39
Method	Briefly, the output of a femtosecond Ti : sapphire laser (Tsunami, Spectra-Physics) pumped by SHG of cw Nd3+ : YVO4 laser (Millennia V, Spectra-Physics) was regeneratively amplified with 1 KHz repetition rate (Spitfire, Spectra-Physics).
Method	The amplified pulse (1 mJ/pulse energy and 85 fs fwhm) was divided into two pulses with same energy.
Method	These pulses were guided into two OPA systems (OPA-800, Spectra-Physics) or into a 1 cm fused silica cell filled with H2O/D2O (3 : 7) mixture for super-continuum generation.
Method	The wavelengths of the OPA output pulses were converted by SHG, THG, FHG, or by sum-frequency generation with the fundamental 800 nm pulse.
Method	The output pulses were obtained with energy of 1–10 mW, fwhm of ∼120 fs, and a wavelength range that covered 300–1200 nm.
Method	When two OPA systems were utilized, one of the energy of the output pulse was attenuated to <1/5000 and utilized as a probe pulse.
Method	The pulse duration at the sample position was estimated to be 120 fs from the cross correlation trace at the same position.
Method	The intensity of the probe, reference, and the pump pulses were monitored simultaneously by photodiodes and sent to a microcomputer for further analysis.
Method	When the super continuum was utilized as the probe pulse, both the pump and the probe pulses were passed through an optical chopper rotating with a frequency of 100 Hz to reduce the optical damage of the sample.
Method	The signal and the reference pulse were detected with two pairs of a monochrometer and a MCPD.
Method	The obtained transient spectra were calibrated for group velocity mismatch.
Method	Sample cell with an optical length of 2 mm was utilized and the optical density of the sample was set to ∼1.0.
Method	Picosecond laser photolysis system with a mode-locked Nd3+:YAG laser was utilized for transient absorption measurement.40
Method	The second harmonic at 532 nm with 15 ps fwhm and 0.5–1.0 mJ of power was utilized for excitation.
Method	The excitation pulse was focused into a spot with a diameter of ca. 1.5 mm.
Method	A picosecond white continuum generated by focusing the fundamental pulse into a 10 cm quartz cell containing H2O/D2O mixture (1 : 3) was employed as a probe pulse.
Method	The white continuum was divided into two beams by a half-mirror and the reflected beam was monitored by a monochrometer and a MCPD.
Method	The penetrated beam was utilized as a probe beam and also detected by a monochromator and a MCPD.
Method	To cancel the effect of molecular rotational diffusion, the polarization of the white continuum was changed from linear to circular by a λ/4 plate.
Method	Steady state absorption and emission spectra were measured by Hitachi U-3500 spectrophotometer and Hitachi 850E fluorescence spectrophotometer, respectively.
Method	The optical density at the peak absorption wavelength of the InC solution was 0.25–0.15 for the emission measurement.
Method	Resonance Raman scattering was measured by the 514.5 nm line of an Ar ion laser (STABLELITE 2017, Spectra-Physics) and a CCD (1152F, Princeton Instruments).
Method	The sample concentration was ∼1.0 × 10−3 M and a rotating cell with diameter of 11.7 mm was utilized.
Method	The laser beam was injected into the sample cell from the bottom and the perpendicular scattering was measured.
Method	Indigo carmine (InC, >97.5%) and dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO, >99.7%) were purchased from Kanto chemicals, N,N′-dimethylformamide (DMF, infinity pure grade), methanol (MeOH, infinity pure grade), D2O (>99.5%), and polyvinylalcohol (PVA, MW ≅ 40 000, completely hydrolyzed) were from Wako Pure Chemical Industries, N-methylformamide (MFA, >99%) and formamide (FA, >99%) were from Tokyo Chemical Industries.
Method	H2O was filtered by ion exchange resin.
Background	The purity of InC was checked by measuring the IR absorption spectrum of InC before and after recrystallization, which bared no difference.
Method	The InC/PVA film was produced by mixing 2.0 mg of InC and 1.5 g of PVA in 20 ml of hot water and dropping 2 ml of the solution onto a glass plate.
Method	The sample was dried over night under atmosphere and then kept inside a vacuum desiccator for several days.
Method	The peak optical density of the film was about 0.7–1.0.
Result	The steady-state absorption and fluorescence spectra of InC in various solvents are shown in Fig. 1.
Result	The electronic spectrum of InC shows a modest solvatochromic shift with virtually similar shape.
Result	The absorption, λabs, and fluorescence peak wavelengths, λflu, and Stokes shift, νStokes, are listed in Table 1, respectively.
Result	The value of νStokes increased in the order of DMF < DMSO < MFA < FA ≅ MeOH < H2O which is in good agreement with the previous report.37
Background	It was reported that plot of νStokesvs. the Mataga–Lippert polarity function, f(D,n), exhibits some degree of linearity while that of νStokesvs. ET(30) exhibits more linearity.
Background	ET(30) is an empirical solvent polarity parameter that considers both solvent polarity and H-bonding influences on solvatochromic shifts.41,42
Result	These solvent parameters are also listed in Table 1.
Method	The chromophore of InC is composed from two pairs of adjacent CO and NH group separated by the central CC bond that form a H-shaped structure (Scheme 1).
Background	The molecular orbital calculations suggest that charge-transfer takes place upon photo-excitation from the NH group to the CO group.32,43,44
Background	However, the dipole contribution to the Stokes shift should be minor because InC possesses a quadropole moment, if the C2h symmetry of the molecule is perfect.
Result	The finite Stokes shift suggests the breakdown of the symmetry upon photo-excitation, which may be caused by the twisting around the central CC bond or the out-of-plane deformation.
Background	For N,N′-diacetylindigo (X = N–COCH3 in Scheme 1 (a)), X-ray crystallography shows that the molecule is not completely flat even in the ground state.43
Result	Moreover, poor linearity of νStokesvs. f(D,n) suggests that the Stokes shift and the solvatochromism are not the results of a simple dipole solvation but also involves structural reorientation arising from the H-bonding to the solvent molecules as the ET(30) correlation suggests.
Result	The electrostatic repulsion between the CO groups is also utilized to explain the blue shift of the absorption spectrum upon trans → cis isomerization, i.e., instability of the cis-configuration compared to the trans-configuration is much larger in the S1 state than in the S0 state which leads to a larger vertical S1 ← S0 transition energy.44
Result	Note that indigo derivatives that exhibit efficient trans → cis isomerization have atomic groups (see Scheme 1: X = S, O, Se, N–COCH3,) that posses weaker electron donating ability than that of indigo (X = NH).
Result	N,N′-dimethylindigo (X = N–CH3) also exhibits trans → cis isomerization although its quantum yield is low, 0.08, and the lifetime of the cis-form is rather short, a few seconds.22
Background	Moreover, isomerization of thioindigo is known to take place through T1 state,15–21 and avoids the electrostatic repulsion in the S1 state.
Background	In the case of oxoindigo with less charge-transfer character, the quantum yield of the trans → cis isomerization is reported to be 0.63 and trans-oxoindigo is non-fluorescent, indicating a direct isomerization from the S1 state.8
Background	Usually cis-form is more polar than the trans-form because of the lower symmetry.
Background	This property is utilized to crystallize cis-form of N,N′-diacethylindigo by inducing trans → cis photoisomerization in non-polar solvent.45
Conclusion	For indigo, polar solvation may not be enough to reduce the electrostatic repulsion of the carbonyl groups to stabilize the cis-form.
Result	On the contrary to the ground state absorption spectra, the band shapes of the transient absorption shown in Figs. 2–4 depended drastically on solvents.
Result	Immediately after the photo-excitation, transient absorption with maximum at ∼465 nm and 635–645 nm appeared in DMF and MeOH solution, which were assigned to the Sn ← S1 absorption.
Result	The absorption peak at ∼645 nm in DMF was slightly blue shifted to ∼635 nm in MeOH.
Result	These transient absorptions are similar to the Sn ← S1 absorption of thioindigo which peaks at ∼470 nm and ∼600 nm.21,46,47
Result	Because no bleaching can be seen around 640 nm where the S1 ← S0 and Sn ← S0 absorption overlap in DMF, extinction coefficient of the Sn ← S1 transition was concluded to be larger than that of the S1 ← S0 transition.
Result	The shoulder appearing around 605 nm in the DMF spectrum can be caused by the bleaching of the S1 ← S0 absorption with its maximum at 618 nm.
Result	The negative signal appearing in the region of >700 nm is assigned to the stimulated emission.
Method	In aqueous solution, the lifetime of the transient absorption was extremely short and the measurement was carried out utilizing the femtosecond Ti : sapphire DOPA system.
Result	In Fig. 4, the transient absorption revealed that the absorption at ∼640 nm is weak compared to those in organic solvents.
Result	Negative signal can be seen at 610–640 nm which is safely ascribed to the bleaching of the S1 ← S0 absorption.
Result	These results indicate that the Sn ← S1 absorption in H2O is broader and blue shifted compared to those in the organic solvents.
Result	Note that the transient absorption around 500–550 nm is relatively stronger than that in the organic solvents.
Result	Fig. 5 shows the kinetics of the ultrafast part (<1.5 ps) of the transient absorption signal pumped and probed at 635 nm with time-resolution of 30 fs.
Method	In addition to the solution phase, the temporal profile in PVA polymer film was also measured.
Background	In the early stage after the excitation, the signals are strongly modulated by the coherent intramolecular vibrations caused by the resonant impulsive stimulated Raman scattering process.
Result	The vibrational dephasing times were 0.5–0.8 ps, which did not strongly depend on solvent, and the vibrational frequencies and their assignments will be discussed later.
Result	Note that the phase of the oscillation is similar in all solvents, including H2O where the signal possesses negative intensity.
Result	The negative signal observed in H2O corresponds to the bleaching of the ground state absorption as can be seen in Fig. 4.
Result	Fig. 6 shows the picosecond decay of the transient absorption pumped and probed at 635 nm in various solvents except H2O. The time constants listed in Table 2 were obtained by multi-exponential fitting of the decays shown in Figs. 5 and 6.
Background	The intense coherent oscillation and overlap of the ground state bleach and transient absorption prevent the rational analysis of the dynamics around the time origin.
Method	The fitting range was set to ≥53 fs, therefore, any ultrafast dynamics that occurred within the pulse duration were neglected.
Result	In the organic solvents, three components including two with negative amplitudes were necessary to fit the signals satisfactorily.
Result	It can be seen in Fig. 5 that the excited state absorption rapidly increased in the organic solvents.
Result	The time constants for the rise, τ1 and τ2, were not very sensitive to the solvent property, although in PVA, the rise was significantly slow compared to other fluid solvents and can be observed in Fig. 6.
Background	Because the probe wavelength of 635 nm is near the peak of the Sn ← S1 absorption spectrum, the rise component corresponds to the narrowing of the transient absorption caused by a conformational relaxation in the excited state.
Result	It can be noticed in Fig. 6 that the decay profile in DMSO is identical to that in DMF and those in MeOH and FA are parallel.
Background	The longest time constant, τ3, in organic solvents and PVA was assigned to the lifetime of the S1 state.
Result	The fluorescence lifetime of InC in DMF was reported to be 110 ps48 which is in good agreement with our present value of 92 ± 0.4 ps.
Result	The ultrafast time profile in aqueous solution was rather complicated and needed four components to fit the data satisfactorily.
Problem	To elucidate the accurate S1 lifetime in aqueous solution, the decay of the transient absorption and the recovery of the ground state bleach was probed at 470 nm and 610 nm, respectively, with excitation at 585 nm (Fig. 7).
Result	The time constants of the decay and the rise measured at 470 nm and 610 nm were 3.9 ps and 4.0 ps, respectively; thus, the average of these two were regarded as the S1 lifetime of InC in aqueous solution.
Background	The dynamics taking place faster than 4.0 ps in aqueous solution is also related to the relaxation in the excited state.
Result	Interestingly, from Tables 1 and 2, it can be seen that the lifetime of InC decreases in solvents with larger Stokes shift.
Result	These observations indicate that ultrafast structural reorganization and solvent reorientation have a strong influence on the deactivation process.
Problem	Thus, we have carried out experiments on deuterium isotope effect and viscosity effect.
Problem	Provided that the H-bonding is involved in the deactivation process, deuteration could cause a dynamical influence.
Background	The time dependence of the ground state bleach signal pumped and probed at 635 nm in H2O was compared with that in D2O in Fig. 8.
Result	The PP signals showed ultrafast decay into the negative amplitude regime and it reached the minimum value at ∼250 fs.
Result	After the decay, the signals recovered multi-exponentially, and the PP signal overshot to positive value at ∼4 ps.
Result	To fit the time-dependence of the signal, four components, including two with negative amplitude, were necessary (Table 2).
Result	The signal exhibited an ultrafast decay of ∼200 fs which was not observed in other organic solvents.
Background	The solvation dynamics of aqueous solution is known to be extremely fast, i.e., inertial response with time constant of ∼30 fs.49
Result	It is clear from Fig. 8 that the negative bleach signal in H2O recovers to zero faster than that in D2O. This can be the evidence of the H-bond influencing the ultrafast structural reorganization and the deactivation process.
Problem	The amino-hydrogen of InC can be easily exchanged to deuterium by simply dissolving in D2O. Therefore, this could be either the effect of intra- or intermolecular H-bond.
Background	It should be noted that the viscosities of H2O and D2O are slightly different, 1.00 cP and 1.25 cP at 20 °C and this difference also affects the deactivation process in some cases.50
Result	The frequencies and dephasing times of the coherent oscillation observed in the signal were similar in both solvents.
Result	The longest lifetime in highly viscous PVA (260 ± 10 ps) and slower dynamics in D2O compared to that in H2O indicate that the S1 lifetime may depend on the fluidity of the solvent.
Result	To examine this presumption, the S1 state lifetime was plotted against viscosity in Fig. 9(a), which exhibited no correlation.
Result	The lifetime in FA with viscosity of 3.3 cP (22 ± 0.2 ps) was the same as that in MeOH with viscosity of only 0.54 cP.
Result	On the other hand, the lifetime in DMF with viscosity of 0.8 cP was as long as 92 ± 0.4 ps.
Result	The lifetime is shorter in protic solvents than those in aprotic solvents.
Result	Thus, the lifetime was plotted against ET(30) in Fig. 9(b) which showed a good correlation.
Result	See Table 1 for the values of the solvent parameters.
Background	ET(30) is an empirical measure of solvent polarity which also depends on H-bonding ability of the solvent.41,42
Background	It was reported that the value of the Stokes shift also had a good linear relation with ET(30).37
Result	When lifetime is compared with the Mataga–Lippert polarity function, f(D,n), the correlation was not as good as ET(30).
Result	The f(D,n) of MeOH (0.324) is close to that of H2O (0.326), although the lifetimes were rather different, ∼22 ps and ∼4 ps, respectively.
Result	The lifetime in MeOH was the same as that in FA (∼22 ps) with rather different value of f(D,n) which is 0.287.
Result	Correlation can be also found for the solvent H-bond donor acidity parameter, α, which describes the ability of the solvent to donate a proton in a solvent-to-solute H-bond.51
Result	The value of α is as large as 1.17 in water, whereas, those of DMF and DMSO are 0.00.
Background	On the contrary, there was an opposite correlation with the average solvation time, 〈τ〉, obtained from the dynamic Stokes shift measurement of coumarin .15352
Result	The values of 〈τ〉 for MeOH and FA were both 5.0 ps, while those in DMSO and DMF were shorter, i.e. 2.0 ps.
Conclusion	These results demonstrate that H-bond ability of the solvent plays a crucial role rather than the polarity.
Result	Because the ultrafast part of the transient absorption signal of InC was modulated strongly by intramolecular vibrations, the Fourier transform was performed on the signals shown in Fig. 5 and the real parts of the Fourier transformed spectra are shown in Fig. 10.
Result	The strongest mode was observed at ∼260 cm−1 in protic solvents and interestingly this mode became a doublet, ∼254 cm−1 and ∼265 cm−1, in aprotic solvents.
Result	In our femtosecond measurement, coherent oscillation can either result from the electronic ground or excited state, because both absorptions are overlapped at the prove wavelength.
Result	To confirm their origin, resonance Raman scattering measurement was carried out in various solvents with an excitation wavelength of 514.5 nm and the results are shown in Figs. 11 and 12.
Result	In the low-frequency region (Fig. 11), a mode appeared at ∼260 cm−1 in protic solvents which became a doublet, 255 cm−1 and 270 cm−1, in aprotic solvents, in good agreement with the Fourier transformed spectra.
Background	In the near-IR Fourier transform Raman spectrum of solid state indigo, three modes are observed in this frequency range, 275 cm−1 (δOC–CC), 266 cm−1 (δN–CC), and 252 cm−1 (γCC), which are assigned to in-plane and out-of-plane bending modes.53
Background	If the intramolecular H-bonds are replaced by the intermolecular ones, slight twisting or out-of-plane deformation of the molecule can occur.
Background	Therefore, the molecular structure will be thermally distributed along the twisting/deformation coordinate and result as a broadening of the Raman bands.
Background	Other mode that showed strong solvent dependence was the one at 613–617 cm−1.
Background	This mode was sharp and comparatively strong in aprotic solvents whereas it was broad and weak in protic solvents.
Background	For indigo, out-of-plane N–H motion was located at 635 cm−1 (Raman) and 633 cm−1 (IR).53
Problem	If the mode at 613–617 cm−1 of InC can be assigned to the same mode, this also suggests that molecular planarity has declined in protic solvents.
Result	However, in high-frequency region, 1200–1800 cm−1 (Fig. 12), we were not able to observe any notable solvent dependence.
Background	The most important modes for indigo in this region are the CC and CO stretching modes, i.e., 1582 cm−1 and 1701 cm−1, respectively.53
Background	For InC, strong mode can be observed at ∼1582 cm−1 and ∼1705 cm−1.
Result	The frequency of these modes may be slightly higher in protic solvents although it is hardly noticeable.
Background	It seems that exchange of intra- to intermolecular H-bond does not significantly change the conjugated double bonding structure of InC. Usually it is known that intramolecular H-bond that forms a five- or six-membered ring is rather strong, because of the good overlap of the molecular orbitals, and the frequency of the hydrogen accepting CO stretching mode is reduced by 10–100 cm−1.29
Result	However, symmetric ν6 CO stretching mode of indigo observed in Raman spectrum is not significantly lower than other non-H-bonding indigo derivatives.
Background	In solid state near-IR Fourier transformed Raman spectra, the frequency was 1701, 1674, and 1660 cm−1 for indigo, thioindigo, and selenoindigo, respectively (the frequency of indigo was the highest).
Background	In solution, the frequency was reported to be 1705, 1688, and 1714 cm−1 for indigo, N,N′-dimethylindigo and N,N′-diacetylindigo, respectively.54
Background	For the IR active out-of-phase ν61 CO stretching mode, the frequency of indigo was notably lower than that of other non-H-bonding indigo derivatives, i.e., 1627, 1638, 1690, 1642, 1656, 1692, and 1724 cm−1 for indigo, N,N′-dimethylindigo, N,N′-diacetylindigo, selenoindigo, thioindigo, oxoindigo, and dehydroindigo, respectively.11,29,54
Background	Usually this is treated as the evidence of double intramolecular H-bonds, however, it should be noted that, in crystal, indigo is considered to form intermolecular H-bonds with each other.
Background	The shifting and the broadening of the absorption spectrum in solid phase are regarded as the evidence of the self-association of indigo.13
Background	The NH stretching mode appears as a rather broad band at 3268 and 3270 cm−1 in IR and in Raman spectrum, respectively, and the presence or absence of the H-bond is difficult to judge.53
Problem	To investigate the nature of the H-bonding, temperature dependent measurement of the Raman spectrum of InC in DMF was carried out (Fig. 13).
Background	Usually the bonding energy of H-bond is in the order of 3–5 kcal mol−1 which can be partially broken by increasing temperature.
Result	However, noticeable temperature dependence was not observed for the CC and CO stretching modes of InC in the range of 278–363 K (Fig. 13(a)).
Result	The relative intensity of the CO stretching mode of InC at 1703 cm−1 was insensitive to temperature and no new bands appeared.
Result	There are solvent bands at 1630 cm−1 and 1730 cm−1 which can disturb the observation of the temperature dependence.
Result	Note that the solvent band at 1630 cm−1 is shifting to higher frequency with increasing temperature.
Result	We also carried out similar temperature dependent experiment in aqueous solution and no intensity change or appearance of a new band was observed.
Result	If H-bonding and non-H-bonding molecules are in chemical equilibrium, CO stretching is likely to appear as a doublet.
Result	However, the observed CO stretching modes were all singlet indicating that chemical equilibrium is strongly one-sided in the studied temperature range.
Result	There may be slight temperature dependence for the solvent sensitive low-frequency bands, i.e., the band at 255 cm−1 slightly down shifted to 252 cm−1 and the intensity of the band at 270 cm−1 seemed to be decreasing at high temperatures, although the changes were close to the limit of our experimental accuracy.
Conclusion	From the solvent dependent low-frequency Raman modes, it can be concluded that molecular planarity depends on solvent property, although from the constancy of the CC and CO stretching modes, the twisting or the out-of-plane deformation is not as significant as to disturb the conjugated CC structure of InC. The observation of only a single CO stretching mode in all the studied solvents and temperatures rises a question to the existence of intra- or intermolecular H-bonding in the ground state.
Conclusion	Even if there were an interaction between CO and NH groups or with the solvent, it should be a feeble one in the ground state.
Result	Temperature dependence of the fluorescence intensity was measured and shown in Fig. 14.
Result	The Arrhenius plot reveals the activation energy for the radiationless deactivation to be 8.8 kJ mol−1 and 3.5 kJ mol−1 in DMSO and H2O, respectively.
Result	The deactivation is a barrier-crossing process and the activation energy in protic solvents was reduced to less than half the value of that in aprotic solvents.
Result	These activation energies are similar to that expected for H-bond breaking.
Conclusion	We assume that slight twisting or out-of-plane deformation lead to the deactivation of the excited InC. In the case of aprotic solvents, intramolecular H-bonds exist in the excited state, which interrupt the twisting/deformation process, whereas such interruption is weakened in the protic solvents and the activation barrier is reduced.
Conclusion	From the steady state absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy, poor linearity of νStokesvs. f(D,n) suggests that the Stokes shift and the solvatochromism are not the results of a simple dipole solvation but also involves structural reorientation arising from the H-bonding to the solvent molecules as the ET(30) correlation suggests.
Conclusion	From the steady state resonance Raman spectrum, it was observed that the low-frequency bands which can be assigned to the in-plane and out-of-plane bending modes, ∼255 cm−1 and ∼270 cm−1, respectively, became broad and indistinguishable at ∼260 cm−1 in protic solvents.
Conclusion	This indicates the reduction of molecular planarity in protic solvents.
Result	However, the CO stretching at ∼1705 cm−1 did not show any solvent or temperature dependence.
Result	On the contrary to the ground state absorption spectrum, the transient Sn ← S1 absorption spectrum in the aqueous solution was quite different from those in the organic solvents.
Result	The ultrafast dynamics in D2O was noticeably slower than that in H2O which suggests the involvement of H-bonding in the deactivation process.
Background	Elsaesser et al. concluded from their time-resolved IR absorption experiment that the NH stretching in the S1 state was shifted to lower frequency by 40 cm−1 compared to the ground state.23
Result	This also supports the formation of the H-bonds in the excited state.
Conclusion	The deactivation process was strongly solvent dependent, and it was faster in protic solvents, especially in H2O, and the lifetime had a linear correlation with the empirical solvent polarity parameter, ET(30).
Conclusion	The deactivation was a barrier crossing process and the activation energy was lower in protic solvents.
Background	From these observations, we propose the following deactivation scheme.
Conclusion	The H-bond interaction is weak in the ground state whereas it is strong in the excited state.
Conclusion	The central CC bond will weaken upon photo-excitation by the increased anti-bonding nature of the molecular orbital in the excited state which leads to the loss of molecular planarity.
Conclusion	Loss of the planarity opens a channel to the ultrafast radiationless deactivation.
Conclusion	However, in aprotic solvents, intramolecular H-bonds retain the molecular planarity and disturb the deactivation process.
Conclusion	In protic solvents, intermolecular H-bonds take place of the intramolecular ones and the activation barrier for the radiationless deactivation is reduced.
Conclusion	The rise components observed in ultrafast kinetics of the transient absorption (Fig. 5) could be the formation of the intra-/intermolecular H-bonds and the related conformational reorganization.
Conclusion	Dissipation of vibrational energy through the solute-solvent H-bond may also play a role in the deactivation process.
Background	It is reported for betaine 30, the probe molecule utilized to determine the ET(30) values of solvents, that the vibrational energy is transferred to solvent through the H-bond.55
Result	The cis-form of indigo is energetically unstable than the trans-form and energy barrier does not exist between these two isomers.
Background	It is known that thermal trans → cis isomerization of N,N′-dimethylindigo can be catalyzed by acid22 indicating a low energy barrier in protic solvents.
Conclusion	Therefore, the deactivation process only leads back to the trans-form.

Problem	Vitrification, nucleation and crystallization in phenyl-2-hydroxybenzoate (salol) studied by Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) and Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Currents (TSDC)
Problem	The behaviour of phenyl-2-hydroxybenzoate (salol) with respect to crystallization and vitrification was studied by Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Currents (TSDC) and Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC).
Result	It was found that this compound can be easily supercooled, and vitrified by further cooling.
Result	The degree of supercooling can be high, even for low cooling rates.
Result	The fragility index was found to be m ≅ 60 by DSC and by TSDC, a value that is lower than the values previously reported.
Result	Furthermore, glassy salol crystallises on heating (cold crystallisation).
Result	Two different polymorphs were detected, and the conditions of formation of each of them have been clearly established.
Result	Finally, it was shown that the β-relaxation of salol, that is difficult to observe by Dielectric Relaxation Spectroscopy, was very clearly detected by TSDC.
Conclusion	This mobility, that is believed to assist the occurrence of the nucleation process, was found to be narrowly distributed in activation energy, with a mean value around Ea = 46 kJ mol−1.
Result	The mean characteristic time at the glass transition temperature of these molecular motions was found to be of the order of τβ(Tg) ≅ 10−2 s.
Background	Salol, or phenyl-2-hydroxybenzoate, or phenyl salicylate (see Fig. 1) are three names for an ester with diversified applications, namely as a stabilizer for cellulosic and vinyl plastics, as an ingredient for suntan preparations, and also as an analgesic and antipyretic.
Background	Furthermore, it is a fragile glass-forming substance and, in this context, it is considered as a model substance for the study of the glass transition and of the molecular mobility in the supercooled liquid state and in the glass.1
Background	It was found, a long time ago, that crystalline salol can exist in, at least, two different crystal structures,2–4 one stable that melts at Tfus = 41.7° C, and the other, instable, with Tfus = 28.5° C.
Background	Furthermore, the crystallization behaviour of salol has been the subject of investigation for many years.3–6
Background	Salol is easily supercooled, that is to say, it has a low tendency to crystallize on cooling and it is relatively easy to vitrify.
Background	It was found7 that the crystallization due to crystal growth occurs in the temperature interval between 254 and 313 K (between −19 and +40° C) with a maximum at 297 K (26° C).
Background	More recently, a different crystallization mechanism was identified by Oguni et al8,9. in the vicinity of the glass transition temperature (Tg = 211 K = −52° C at 10 K min−1 obtained by DSC), and it was demonstrated that the crystals formed at 220 K and at 300 K have the same crystal structure.
Background	It is recognised that the homogeneous nucleation rate has a maximum near Tg in many cases, given that the development of structured clusters of molecules is enhanced as the temperature decreases.
Background	In particular, this is expected to be the case for fragile liquids, given that they have more opportunities for the development of structured cluster-like configurations.
Background	Below Tg, however, the motional rearrangement of molecules becomes sluggish, so that the nucleation process should be kinetically reduced.
Background	Despite this general idea, the existence of a slow nucleation mechanism below Tg in salol was proposed in a recent paper.10
Background	According to this work, the crystal formed as a consequence of this mechanism is a metastable polymorph that melts at Tfus = 300 K = 27° C, and the β-molecular relaxation process is believed to be the motional process that controls the nucleation and growth mechanisms under such conditions.11,12
Method	In the present work we report some results obtained by Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) that provide us with a better understanding of the thermal behaviour of salol.
Problem	In this context we will characterise the glass transition of salol, and we will determine the fragility index of this glass-forming system for the heating rate dependence of the onset temperature of the glass transition DSC signal.
Problem	The conditions for nucleation, as well as the conditions that enable the crystallization of salol to generate one or the other of the two crystalline polymorphic forms, will be discussed.
Method	The technique of Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Currents (TSDC) will also be used with two purposes.
Problem	One of them is to monitor the cold crystallization process of salol, the other is to study the β-relaxation process that is believed to assist the nucleation process.
Method	Salol (C13H10O3, CAS no.
Method	118-55-8), was purchased from Aldrich (99% purity).
Method	It was purified by sublimation at room temperature under a pressure of 1.3 × 10−1 Pa.
Method	The calorimetric measurements were performed with a 2920 MDSC system from TA Instruments Inc. Dry high purity He gas with a flow rate of 30 cm3 min−1 was purged through the sample.
Method	Cooling was accomplished with the liquid nitrogen cooling accessory (LNCA) which provides automatic and continuous programmed sample cooling down to −150° C.
Method	The baseline was calibrated scanning the temperature domain of the experiments with an empty pan.
Method	The temperature calibration was performed taking the onset of the endothermic melting peak at a heating rate of q = 10 K min−1 of several calibration standards: n-decane (Tfus = 243.75 K), n-octadecane (Tfus = 301.77 K), hexatriacontane (Tfus = 347.30 K), indium (Tfus = 430.61 K) and tin (Tfus = 506.03 K).
Method	The organic standards were high purity Fluka products, while the metal standards were supplied by TA Instruments Inc. The correction of the temperature for different heating rates was performed on the basis of results obtained with indium.
Method	The onset temperature of the melting peak of indium, (Ton)fus, was obtained at several heating rates, qh, and the obtained values were fitted to a third order polynomial, (Ton)fus = a × q3h + b × q2h + c × qh + d.
Method	The temperature correction for each heating rate allows the extrapolation to the melting of indium at infinitely slow rate conditions.
Method	In this context, the correction for each heating rate, (ΔT)qh = a × q3h + b × q2h + c × qh, was subtracted from the experimental values in order to correct the data for the effect of the heating rate on the temperature of the DSC signals.
Method	The enthalpy was also calibrated using indium (melting enthalpy ΔfusH = 28.71 J g−1).
Method	Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Current (TSDC) experiments were carried out with a TSC/RMA spectrometer (TherMold, Stamford, CT, USA) covering the range from −170 to +400 °C.
Method	In order to analyse specific regions of the TSDC spectrum, different methods of polarising the sample can be used, namely the so-called TSDC global experiment and the Thermal Sampling (TS) experiment (often called thermal windowing or cleaning, or partial polarisation).
Method	The TS method, where the polarising field is applied in a narrow temperature interval, enables one to resolve a global peak into its individual relaxation modes.
Background	The physical background of the TSDC technique is presented elsewhere.13,14
Background	The basic description of the TSDC experiment, and the discussion of the nature of the information it provides, is presented in detail in recent publications15,16.
Background	As underlined before, an important feature of the thermal behaviour of salol is that the liquid can be cooled down well below the melting temperature without crystallizing.
Background	This can be the case even for cooling rates as low as 1 K min−1, and the supercooling can be as deep as 80° below Tfus.
Background	It is to be underlined that nucleation and crystal growth are somewhat probabilistic events, so that our statements have in this context a considerable statistical or probabilistic signification.
Background	In the case of the behaviour of liquid salol upon cooling, that means that the crystallisation on cooling from the isotropic melt is a relatively infrequent occurrence and that, in most cases, the metastable liquid presents a high stability, enabling an easy handling.
Result	As will be seen later, crystalline phenyl salicylate presents two polymorphic forms.
Result	One of them has an onset melting temperature at (Tfus)on = 30° C independent of the heating rate, and a temperature of maximum intensity slightly dependent on the heating rate (Tfus)max = ∼32° C.
Result	The melting enthalpy of this polymorph was found to be approximately ΔfusH = ∼16.5 kJ mol−1.
Result	The other polymorph has an onset melting temperature at (Tfus)on = 41° C which is also independent of the heating rate, and a temperature of maximum intensity slightly dependent on the heating rate (Tfus)max = ∼43° C.
Result	The melting enthalpy of this polymorph was found to be ΔfusH = 18.6 ± 0.2 kJ mol−1, in good agreement with the value of 19.2 kJ mol−1 reported in the literature.9
Result	The glass transition temperature was found to be Tg = 221 K = −52° C at 10 K min−1 (onset temperature of the DSC glass transition signal), and the heat capacity jump at the glass transition is ΔCp(Tg) = (111 ± 2) J K−1 mol−1, in excellent agreement with the literature values.9
Background	The influence of the heating rate on the onset temperature, Ton, of the DSC glass transition signal was used to evaluate the activation energy at the glass transition temperature, and the fragility index of this glass-former.17,18
Result	The obtained results, after correction of the temperature axis for the different heating rates, are plotted in Fig. 2.
Result	The slope of the regression straight-line is −30.3 (with a confidence interval of ±0.8).
Result	From this slope, the value of 252 kJ mol−1 was obtained for the activation energy of the structural relaxation, leading to the value of m = 60 for the fragility index of salol, that confirms the fragile character of the compound.
Result	It is to be reported that this value is not very far from the value m = 63 obtained by Dielectric Relaxation Spectroscopy19 and from m = 68 obtained by Modulated Temperature Differential Scanning Calorimetry,20 but it is significantly lower than m = 76 obtained by Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Currents,21 and from the fictive temperatures of differently quenched glasses obtained by DSC.22
Problem	Given the scattering of these values, we decided to repeat the determination of the fragility index of salol using the technique of Thermally Stimulated Depolarisation Currents (TSDC).
Method	The sample we used now was from the same batch that was used for DSC measurements, previously purified by sublimation as described in the Experimental.
Result	From these new TSDC results, that were treated according to the procedures described elsewhere,16 the value of 255 kJ mol−1 was obtained for the activation energy of the structural relaxation, which corresponds to a value m = 61 for the fragility index of salol.
Background	Nucleation is believed to be the first step of the crystallization process.
Background	It is a stochastic process that depends on a large number of factors, namely size of the sample, type of cell or container used, cooling or heating rate, presence of impurities, etc… According to Oguni et al.,8 the homogeneous nucleation takes place in many cases above but near Tg.
Background	This is so because the development of structured clusters of molecules is enhanced as the temperature decreases, and because below Tg the motional rearrangement of molecules becomes sluggish, so that the nucleation process should be kinetically reduced.8
Background	Heterogeneous nucleation, on the other hand, depends on many factors and can occur in a wide temperature domain.
Problem	In order to characterize, as precisely as possible, the conditions for nucleation in salol, we carried out a series of successive experiments described as follows: 1—the sample melted at 60° C is cooled down at ∼25 K min−1 to a temperature T0; 2—the sample is heated at constant rate (10 K min−1) from T0 up to 60° C.
Method	The temperature T0 varied from experiment to experiment, from −65° C (well below the glass transition temperature) up to +5° C.
Result	In all the experiments cold crystallization was observed, indicating that nucleation is not restricted to a narrow temperature interval in the vicinity of the glass transition temperature, but that it takes place in a wide temperature interval above Tg.
Result	Fig. 3 shows the result of different DSC experiments where the sample was heated up from the glassy state at T = −90° C up to above the melting temperature, at different heating rates.
Method	Prior to each experiment the sample was vitrified by cooling from the melt (T = 60° C) down to T = −90° C.
Result	The results of these experiments show three essential features: 1—the glass transition signal at Tg ≅ −52° C (not shown in Fig. 3); 2—an exothermic signal that corresponds to the cold crystallization (crystallization on heating) and is observed in the temperature interval between T = −25° C and the melting peak; 3—and the endothermic melting peak at Tfus.
Result	It can be observed that the exothermic signal of the cold crystallization is strongly sensitive, in shape as well as in position, to changes in the heating rate.
Result	In fact, for low heating rates the exothermic peak is relatively narrow and well separated from the melting peak.
Result	The onset temperature of the crystallization process (that we identify with the onset of the exothermic signal at the lowest heating rate of 1 K min−1) is (Tcr)on = −25° C.
Result	In contrast, for higher heating rates, the position of the exothermic signal shifts to higher temperatures and eventually interferes with the melting peak.
Conclusion	Another important conclusion that we can draw from the results shown in Fig. 3 is that, for low heating rates (lower than 6 K min−1), the cold crystallization leads to the most stable polymorph, that melts at Tfus = 42° C, while for high heating rates (higher than 9 K min−1), the cold crystallization tends to form the polymorph that melts at Tfus = 32° C.
Background	The powder X-ray diffraction patterns of the most stable crystalline form of salol have been reported.8
Background	Furthermore, it was shown that those patterns are identical for the crystal formed by annealing the metastable liquid at 300 K, and for the crystal formed from a long annealing (5 days) at 220 K (very slightly above Tg).
Conclusion	Since the latter probably arises from an homogeneous nucleation process,8 this finding, together with the results shown in Fig. 3 for the lowest heating rates, suggest that the crystallization of the most stable polymorph of salol is initiated by a relatively slow homogeneous nucleation taking place at low temperatures.
Result	Note also in Fig. 3 that, for intermediate heating rates, a signal is often observed between the exothermic crystallization peak and the endothermic melting peak, as shown on the thermogram at 7 K min−1.
Result	The signal, that presents an endothermic part followed by an exothermic one, corresponds to the interconversion between the two polymorphs: the lower temperature polymorph crystallized first, begins to melt at 32° C and, as it melts, the stable polymorph crystallizes to melt later at 42° C.
Conclusion	The DSC technique thus shows that the polymorph that melts at Tfus = 32° C is unstable, which makes the X-ray analysis of its crystalline structure difficult.
Result	It is necessary to emphasize that the behaviour depicted in Fig. 3, and described before, is not always strictly observed.
Background	As pointed out before, nucleation and crystal growth are somewhat probabilistic events, and the consequence is that the experiments are not entirely reproducible.
Result	For example, we observed that, if the sample crystallizes on cooling, the crystal formed is always the stable form that melts at Tfus = 42° C.
Result	Moreover, if a very tiny portion of the sample crystallizes on cooling, the nucleation and crystal growth processes, that take place in a subsequent heating ramp, will lead also to the stable form, independently of the heating rate.
Result	An important requirement for the behaviour shown in Fig. 3 to be observed is that no crystallization takes place in the process of cooling from the melt that precedes the linear heating ramp.
Background	It was shown before that for low heating rates the onset of the cold crystallization is at ∼−20° C.
Problem	In the following we will use the TSDC technique in order to evaluate the stability of the metastable supercooled liquid phase, and to qualitatively analyse the temperature dependence of the rate of the cold crystallization.
Method	The TSDC glass transition peak will be used as a probe to quantitatively detect the glassy phase present in the sample.
Result	Fig. 4 shows the results of two TSDC experiments.
Method	In the first one, the sample of salol was cooled quickly from the liquid (50° C) down to the polarisation temperature TP = −57° C, and the experiment was then carried out.
Method	The final temperature of the linear depolarisation ramp was Tf = 38° C, and the heating rate was q = 4 K min−1.
Result	The result of this experiment shows two peaks.
Result	The first, which appears in the glass transition region, is a component of the glass transition relaxation.
Result	The second one shows a maximum intensity at ∼0–5° C.
Conclusion	Given the big difference between the temperature location of this peak and the polarisation temperature (TP = −57° C), it is not conceivable that it arises from a dipolar polarisation activated by the electric field.
Conclusion	This peak at ∼0–5° C is a consequence of a structural modification which occurred in the sample during the constant rate heating process, and that can be ascribed to the crystallisation of salol from the supercooled liquid state.
Result	Note that this peak occurs precisely in the temperature region where the cold crystallisation occurs, beginning close to a temperature of ∼−25° C, in agreement with the DSC results reported previously.
Result	The second experiment, whose result is shown as a flat dashed line in Fig. 4, was performed immediately after the first: the sample was cooled quickly directly from the final temperature of the heating ramp of the first experiment (Tf = 38° C) down to the same polarisation temperature, and it was submitted to the same TS experiment.
Result	The disappearance of the glass transition peak indicates that, at the end of the first experiment, the sample is no more in the glassy state, reinforcing the idea that the peak at 0–5° C was due to cold crystallization.
Result	Moreover, the absence of any peak in the 0–5° C region in the second heating ramp indicates that the sample is fully crystallized.
Result	The TSDC and DSC data are thus in total agreement.
Problem	In order to obtain more detailed information on the kinetics of this transformation, we performed a series of TSDC global experiments, where the final temperature of the heating ramp, Tf, varied from series to series.
Background	Doing so, the sample was allowed to anneal, for a given period of time, at temperatures in the vicinity of Tf, where the transformation of the supercooled liquid into the crystal is more or less effective.
Result	Fig. 5 shows the results of such a series of global experiments where Tf = −21° C.
Method	In the first experiment of the series (higher peak in Fig. 5) the sample was cooled quickly from the liquid state (50° C) down to the polarisation temperature (TP = −57° C), in order to prepare the sample in the glassy state.
Method	In all the subsequent experiments, the sample was cooled down to the polarisation temperature from the final temperature of the linear heating ramp of the previous TSDC experiment (Tf = −21° C, as reported before, for the experiments shown in Fig. 5).
Result	The intensity (or the area) of the glass transition peak probes the quantity of glassy phase present in the sample, so that the decrease of the intensity of the TS peaks observed in Fig. 5 from experiment to experiment is the signature of the progressive crystallisation of salol.
Result	Fig. 6 shows how the intensity of the TSDC peaks evolves from experiment to experiment, in a different series of experiments with different Tf.
Result	It can be concluded from Fig. 6 that the crystallisation from the supercooled liquid is slow at −25° C (in perfect agreement with the DSC results), and that the rate of crystallisation increases with increasing temperature, so that it becomes particularly fast for temperatures higher than −17° C.
Conclusion	The results reported in this section illustrate how the TSDC technique can be used in order to detect phase transformations, and to follow their time evolution as a function of temperature, thus providing useful information regarding the respective phase diagrams and the kinetics of phase transformations.
Background	According to the so-called heterogeneous model, a glass and a supercooled liquid are viewed as composed of structured clusters that sink in non-structured or amorphous regions.
Method	In the context of this model, the α-relaxation is considered to originate from collective motions of the molecules within the structured clusters, while the β-process would arise from local motions in the gap between clusters.
Problem	Since the β-relaxation time is much shorter than the α-relaxation time near the glass transition temperature, the β-relaxation process is believed to assist the nucleation process.11
Method	One of the techniques most widely used to study the mobility associated with the α and β-processes is Dielectric Relaxation Spectroscopy.
Method	However, the use of this experimental technique for the analysis and characterization of the β-process is difficult in the case of salol, given that this process is disguised under the main α-relaxation, and appears as a so-called excess wing in the high frequency side of the dielectric α-peak.23
Method	We recently showed that, in such cases, TSDC appears as an excellent technique to resolve both α and β-relaxational processes, and to enable a clear identification and characterization of the β-rearrangement.24
Result	Fig. 7 shows the result of a series of TSDC experiments on the secondary β-relaxation of salol.
Result	The peaks in the right-hand side, showing a strongly increasing intensity, indicate the coalescence between α and β motional processes, while the other peaks correspond to molecular motions of the β-process.
Result	Fig. 8 shows the representation of the activation enthalpy, ΔH≠, associated with these TSDC peaks as a function of the respective temperature location (temperature of maximum intensity, Tm).
Result	The line shown in Fig. 8 is the so-called zero entropy line.
Result	It can be seen that a small number of points in the higher temperature side clearly deviate from the zero entropy line: they correspond to the higher intensity peaks in Fig. 7 and indicate the mergence of the α and β-motions.
Result	On the other hand, most of the points in the low temperature side show very small deviations from the zero entropy line, indicating that they correspond to localized and non-cooperative molecular motions.
Result	From the data included in Figs. 7 and 8 we can conclude that the TSDC technique provides very clear results on the β-relaxation of salol, allowing a very precise characterisation of the molecular mobility associated with it.
Result	The β-relaxation shows a narrow distribution in activation energy with a mean value around Ea = 46 kJ mol−1.
Result	The dynamics of this motional process is such that the mean characteristic time at the glass transition temperature is τβ(Tg) ≅ 1.6 × 10−2 s.
Result	We want to note that this β-mobility of salol is not present in the TSDC spectrum of the crystallized sample, suggesting that this mobility is a feature of the glassy state.
Background	Let us finally note that the results in Fig. 7 were obtained using standard vitrification conditions (cooling rates not higher than −5 to −20 K min−1), without need for fast quenching of the liquid25.
Problem	We have investigated phenyl-2-hydroxybenzoate (salol) from the point of view of the molecular mobility, in relation with the problem of phase transformations.
Result	The study of the glass transition by DSC (heating rate dependence of the onset temperature of the glass transition signal) provided the value of 252 kJ mol−1 for the activation energy of the structural relaxation, leading to the value of m = 60 for the fragility index of salol, that confirms the fragile character of the compound.
Result	The TSDC results, obtained with the same sample batch used for DSC experiments, lead to similar values, suggesting that those previously reported in the literature are somewhat overestimated.
Result	Two polymorphs of salol were identified.
Result	One of them has a melting temperature at (Tfus)max = ∼32° C and a melting enthalpy of approximately ΔfusH = ∼16.5 kJ mol−1.
Result	The other polymorph, the most stable, melts at (Tfus)max = ∼43° C and shows a melting enthalpy of ΔfusH = 18.6 ± 0.2 kJ mol−1.
Conclusion	It was demonstrated that the less stable polymorph can be obtained by cold crystallization from a fully amorphous sample in a linear heating ramp with rate higher than ∼9 K min−1.
Conclusion	It was shown how the cold crystallization process can be monitored using the dielectric technique of TSDC.
Conclusion	The TSDC results confirmed those obtained by DSC, and provided qualitative information about the temperature dependence of the cold crystallization kinetics.
Problem	Finally, TSDC was used to study the β-relaxation of salol, that is believed to assist the occurrence of the nucleation process.
Conclusion	It was shown that this β-process is detected by TSDC in a very clear way, allowing a very precise characterisation of this mobility.
Conclusion	The activation energy is narrowly distributed, with a mean value around Ea = 46 kJ mol−1.
Result	The mean characteristic time at the glass transition temperature was found to be of the order of τβ(Tg) ≅ 10−2 s.

Problem	An FT-IR study of the adsorption and reactivity of ethanol on systems derived from Mg2Al–W7O246– layered double hydroxides
Problem	A FT-IR spectroscopy study on the surface reactivity of MgAl-paratungstate LDHs calcined at 500 and 700 °C, prepared by anion exchange from a Mg2Al-nitrate hydrotalcite and precursor salt (NH4)10H2W12O42, for ethanol dehydrogenation, is reported.
Result	Calcination at 300 °C of Mg2Al–W7O246– LDH leads to amorphous species, and crystallisation of MgWO4 is observed at 700 °C.
Result	The solids calcined at 500 and 700 °C exhibit surface Lewis acid sites and are selective to acelaldehyde formation during ethanol dehydrogenation or to oxidative dehydrogenation, especially in the sample calcined at 500 °C, where carboxylate species are not detected in the temperature range tested (room temperature to 300 °C).
Background	Layered double hydroxides (LDHs), also known as hydrotalcites or anionic clays, are materials which can be easily synthesised by cheap methods.
Background	Its structure consists of Mg(OH)2 (brucite) layers, where a partial M2+/M3+ substitution has taken place, the positive charge in excess being balanced by anions (most often carbonate) located, together with water molecules, in the interlayer.
Background	The general formula is [M1–x2+Mx3+ (OH)2] [Ax/nn–] mH2O.
Background	The value of x usually ranges between 0.17 and 0.33.
Background	Probably, one of the most interesting properties of these materials is their ability to exchange topotactically the interlayer anions, thus permitting the synthesis of a large number of compounds.1–7
Background	Many polyoxometalates (POMs) of transition metal cations (e.g., Mo, W, V) with different structures (Keggin, Dawson or Finke type) have been incorporated into the interlayer space of anionic clays.3,6–23
Background	The main problem found when synthesising these materials is that the precise nature of POM is pH-dependent24,25 and they are usually unstable under the basic conditions provided by the solid material, so a careful control of synthesis methods and conditions (e.g., pH, temperature, contact time of the LDH precursor with POM, etc.) is required.
Background	Intercalation of this sort of anion, in addition to swelling (which increases the accessible surface area) permits immobilisation of the POM, and its controlled release in a polar medium.
Background	These POM-exchanged LDHs found applications as catalysts and molecular sieves.
Background	The effectiveness of catalysts constituted by transition metal oxides associated with divalent cations (magnesium decavanadates, pirovanadates and molybdates) in oxidative dehydrogenation processes is well known.26–30
Background	Their catalytic performance depends on the structure, composition and synthesis route; it has been reported29 that solids obtained upon calcination of hydrotalcites containing intercalated decavanadate are more active in propane dehydrogenation than those containing pirovanadate.
Background	Tungsten has chemical similarities with molybdenum and vanadium; however, very few papers deal with the catalytic properties of tungstates prepared from tungsten-containing hydrotalcites precursors.21,23
Problem	In this paper we report a study on the reducibility and surface acid properties of the systems obtained upon calcination of paratungstate-containing LDHs at 500 and 700 °C, and their activity in ethanol dehydrogenation; this study has been carried out through FT-IR monitoring of the adsorption of different molecules, such as pyridine, ethanol, acetic acid and acetaldehyde.
Method	The sample Mg2Al-paratungstate LDH was prepared by anion exchange.
Method	The Mg2Al–NO3 LDH precursor, with a basal spacing of 8.5 Å, was prepared following the method previously described,31 once prepared it was maintained in suspension under a nitrogen atmosphere.
Method	A portion of this suspension (108 ml, containing 4 g of Mg2Al–NO3) was slowly added to a solution prepared by dissolving 5.7 g of ammonium para-tungstate (NH4)10H2W12O42·10H2O, APW (from Merck), in 200 ml of decarbonated water at 50 °C.
Method	The mixture, under a nitrogen atmosphere, was magnetically stirred at 100 °C for 30 min and the pH was maintained at 6.5 (by adding 0.1 M HNO3).
Method	The solid was washed several times with decarbonated water by centrifugation, filtered and dried at room temperature in a vacuum desiccator leading to sample MgAlW.
Method	The amount of APW was that required to balance the positive charge of the brucite-like layers, plus a 5% excess, as it has been reported that a large excess favours formation of impurities.32
Method	The hydrotalcite obtained, MgAl-paratungstate, was calcined at 500 or 700 °C, for 3 h in air, leading to solids named MgAlW/500 and MgAlW/700, respectively.
Method	Elemental chemical analyses for Mg, Al, and W were carried out in Servicio General de Análisis Químico Aplicado (University of Salamanca, Spain) by atomic absorption in a Mark 2 ELL-240 instrument after dissolving the samples in nitric acid.
Method	Powder X-ray diffraction (PXRD) diagrams were collected on a Siemens D-500 instrument using Cu Kα radiation (λ = 1.54050 Å) and quartz as external standard.
Method	Fourier transform infrared spectra (FT-IR) were recorded using a Perkin-Elmer FT-1730 instrument from Perkin Elmer, using the KBr pellet technique; 100 scans were averaged to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, with a nominal resolution of 4 cm–1.
Method	The nitrogen adsorption–desorption isotherms were recorded at –196 °C in a Gemini instrument, from Micromeritics, on samples previously degassed at 130 °C for 2 h.
Method	The specific surface areas were calculated by the BET method.
Method	The t-plot method was used to determine the total (St) and microporous (Sm) surface areas.
Method	Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) analysis was carried out in a Micromeritics TPR/TPD 2900 instrument at a heating rate of 10 °C min–1 and using a H2/Ar (5% vol) mixture as the reducing agent (60 ml min–1).
Method	Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) studies were performed using a JEOL JSM 5600 LV SEM instrument.
Method	Surface acidity monitoring was carried out through an FT-IR spectroscopy study of pyridine adsorption in a Perkin-Elmer 16PC spectrometer coupled to a high-vacuum Pyrex system, and using self-supported discs, degassed in situ in a special cell (made of Pyrex, but with CaF2 windows, transparent to the IR radiation in the required wavenumber range) at 400 °C for 2 h, previously to pyridine adsorption.
Method	The spectrometer is coupled to a PC, and commercial software was used to process the spectra.
Method	One hundred scans were taken to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, at a nominal resolution of 2 cm–1.
Method	The gas is admitted to the IR-adsorption cell at room temperature and, after 15 min equilibration, the gas phase is removed by outgassing at different temperatures (from room temperature to 400 °C) and the spectrum is recorded.
Method	This same technique and apparatus were used to monitor the adsorption of ethanol, acetic acid and acetaldehyde (expected reactions products).
Method	The spectra were generally recorded without prior outgassing the gas phase.
Problem	The nature of the W-containing species intercalated in sample MgAlW has been studied by different techniques and the results have been previously reported elsewhere33 and are here summarized.
Result	The PXRD diagram of sample MgAlW is shown in Fig. 1, together with that of the precursor nitrate LDH, Mg2Al–NO3, and those of the calcined materials.
Result	The diagram for the uncalcined solid is characteristic of a layered material with the hydrotalcite-like structure, with a basal spacing of 10 Å (from the position of the first basal maximum below 2θ = 10°) larger than that of the precursor nitrate sample (8.5 Å), indicating a swelling of the layers due to the nitrate/p-tungstate exchange.
Conclusion	Due to the pH used during synthesis24,25 and from the gallery height, we concluded33 that the interlayer anion is W7O246–.
Conclusion	Nevertheless, the d003 value for this sample is smaller than that reported by other authors21–23 because of the strong interaction between the anion and the brucite-like layers, favoured by the synthesis temperature (100 °C) and the long contact time between the solution and the layered precursor used.33
Result	No diffraction line corresponding to the Mg2Al–NO3 LDH is recorded, indicating a total exchange under the experimental conditions used.
Result	Sample MgAlW/500 shows a PXRD diagrams with no defined maximum, characteristic of mostly amorphous materials.
Result	Only after calcination at 700 °C do sharp peaks develop which become sharper when calcination is carried out at 800 °C (diagram not shown); these peaks have been ascribed to two different phases of MgWO4, one corresponding to wolframite (file 27-789 of JCPDS files34), where both tungsten and magnesium cations are octahedrally coordinated, and another similar phase formed upon dehydration of MgWO4·xH2O (file 19-776 of JCPDS files34,35), where tungsten ions are tetrahedrally coordinated and magnesium ions maintain an octahedral coordination.
Result	When the calcination temperature is increased to 1000 °C, only lines due to wolframite are recorded.
Result	The diagrams are similar to those previously recorded36 after high temperature calcination of solids prepared by impregnation of MgO with aqueous solutions of p-tungstate salts.
Result	The FT-IR spectrum of sample MgAlW, Fig. 2, show bands characteristic of p-tungstate, although some of them are shifted with respect to the positions reported for the free anion, because of the interaction with the layers.
Result	The characteristic bands are recorded between 1000 and 500 cm–1 at 950, 925 cm–1 (terminal ν(W–O)), 878 cm–1 (corner-sharing νas(W–O–W)), and 747, 670 cm–1 (edge-sharing νas(W–O–W)).
Result	Finally, the bands recorded below 600 cm–1 (close to 552, 447, and 391 cm–1) are due to traslational Al/Mg–OH modes of the brucite-like layers.37
Result	Calcination at 500 °C leads to cancellation of the bands characteristic of polytungstate, and a broad absorption at 851 cm–1 dominates the spectrum.
Result	When the calcination temperature is increased to 700 °C, Fig. 2, individual bands are recorded at 1004, 860, 801, 751, 681 cm–1, due to stretching W–O modes of the two phases of MgWO4 the presence of which has been concluded from the XRD diagram.
Result	The intensities of these bands increase when the calcination temperature is further increased.
Result	Surface texture data for the layered sample, as well as for the nitrate precursor and the solids obtained upon calcination at 500 and 700 °C are given in Table 1.
Background	Layered double hydroxides with the hydrotalcite-like structure usually do not show micropores, as the interlayer space is not accessible to the N2 molecule.
Background	However, swelling of the interlayer because of the incorporation of large anions makes this space available to adsorption as micropores.38
Result	SEM images of some of the compounds prepared are shown in Fig. 3.
Result	The images for uncalcined sample MgAlW show agglomerates of rather large hexagonal plate-like crystals with a diameter between 5–10 µm.
Result	SEM images for the calcined sample are also shown in Fig. 3.
Result	Most of the crystallites show an average size close to 5 µm after calcination at 500 °C and 700 °C.
Result	Even at 700 °C the crystallites of MgWO4 (the phase detected by PXRD) are not observed.
Result	However, when the sample is calcined at 800 °C the needle-like crystals, characteristic of MgWO4, are clearly observed.
Result	The TPR curves for samples MgAlW/500 and MgAlW/700 are shown in Fig. 4.
Result	The reduction maximum shifts to higher temperatures when the calcination temperature of the sample is increased.
Result	The reduction percentages measured, assuming a W6+ to W4+ reduction in the whole temperature range studied, are rather low, 30 and 10%, respectively, for samples MgAlW/500 and MgAlW/700.
Method	As mentioned above, surface acidity was studied through FT-IR monitoring of adsorption of pyridine (py).
Method	After outgassing the sample in situ at 400 °C for 2 h, a pressure of 400 N m–2 was equilibrated with the sample for 30 min, and the spectrum was recorded after outgassing at room temperature, 100, 200, and 300 °C.
Result	The spectra recorded after adsorption of py on sample MgAlW calcined at 500 or 700 °C are very similar; those for sample MgAlW/500 are shown in Fig. 5.
Result	Bands at 1608, 1577, 1492, and 1446 cm–1 are recorded after outgassing at room temperature.
Result	These bands correspond to modes 8a, 8b, 19a, and 19b, respectively, of py coordinated to surface Lewis acid sites,39,40i.e., coordinatively unsaturated metal cations.
Result	The intensities of the signals decrease when the outgassing temperature is increased, but are recorded even after outgassing at 300 °C, indicating that they are rather strong acid sites.
Result	No band is recorded which could be ascribed to adsorption of py on surface Brønsted acid sites.
Method	Although in this study we have followed the reactive adsorption of ethanol on our solids, as acetaldehyde and acetic acid are expected oxidation products of ethanol, the adsorption of these species has been also monitored by FT-IR spectroscopy.
Method	The range reported extends in all cases from 1800 to 1000 cm–1, as the more representative bands of the adsorbed species are expected in this range.
Result	The spectra recorded after contacting acetic acid at room temperature with samples MgAlW/500 and MgAlW/700 are very similar, with bands at 1740, 1718, 1665, 1584, 1457, 1429, 1350, and 1295 cm–1.
Result	The two bands recorded at the highest wavenumbers (1740 and 1718 cm–1), together with that at 1295 cm–1, can be ascribed to modes ν(CO) and ν(CO)/δ(C–OH), respectively, of weakly, molecularly adsorbed acetic acid (the bands are recorded at 1770 and 1264 cm–1 for gaseous acetic acid.41)
Result	These bands disappear after gentle outgassing of the sample, indicating that the interaction should be rather weak.
Result	The band at 1665 cm–1 can be ascribed to the ν(CO) of acetic acid less weakly adsorbed on basic surface sites; this band is only removed after outgassing at higher temperatures.
Result	The bands at 1593, 1457, 1429, and 1350 cm–1 are due to modes νas(COO), νs(COO) + δas(CH3) and δs(CH3) of acetate species bonded to surface Lewis acid sites, through a dissociative adsorption of the acid from the gaseous phase.
Result	These species are even strongly held on the surface, as the bands are recorded (although rather weak) after outgassing the sample at 300 °C.
Result	The spectra recorded after adsorption of acetaldehyde at room temperature on samples MgAlW/500 (Fig. 6) and MgAlW/700 are rather similar.
Result	Bands at 1711, 1350, and 1130 cm–1 are due to modes ν(CO), δs(CH3), and ν(C–C)/ν(CH)/δ(CCO) of molecularly, non-dissociated adsorbed acetaldehyde,42 coordinated through the oxygen atom of the carbonyl group to surface Lewis acid sites.
Result	The bands at 1593, 1457, 1429, and 1350 cm–1 are similar to those recorded after adsorption of acetic acid and are due to acetate species.
Conclusion	These species can have been formed through oxidation of acetaldehyde or they can arise from a Cannizzaro disproportionation of acetaldehyde to acetate and ethoxy species, a process that has been previously reported to occur on other metal oxides.43
Conclusion	Such a disproportionation would account for acetate species formed even at room temperature (spectrum a in Fig. 6), and also for the bands recorded at 1400–1385 and 1100 cm–1, similar to those observed after adsorption of ethanol on these samples (see below), which can be ascribed to δ(CH) and ν(CO) modes of the ethoxy group.
Result	When the sample is heated at 100–200 °C without removal of the gas phase, bands in the same positions are recorded, although their relative intensities change: so, the intensity of the band due to weakly adsorbed acetaldehyde (1711 cm–1) decreases, while a new band at 1669 cm–1 develops; this band is due to acetaldehyde adsorbed on surface Lewis acid sites.
Conclusion	A new band at 1643 cm–1 is also observed, which, together with the band at 1183 cm–1, can be ascribed to modes ν(CC) and ν(CO) of enolate species, CH2CHO–, or, alternatively, crotonaldehyde, as a result of aldol condensation of acetaldehyde.44,45
Result	Although these species are rather stable, they are observed only in the presence of undissociated acetaldehyde.
Conclusion	In our case, as the cell has not been outgassed after adsorption of acetaldehyde at room temperature, their formation cannot be discarded as the temperature is raised; these bands are similar to others recorded after adsorption of acetone or acetaldehyde on different metal oxides.46
Result	Only the bands due to ethoxy species disappear when the sample is heated at 300 °C, Fig. 6; the intensities of those due to molecularly adsorbed acetaldehyde, to crotonaldehyde or to enolate species decrease, while those ascribed to acetate species markedly increase.
Result	These bands due to adsorbed acetate species are the only bands recorded if the sample is outgassed at room temperature after heating at 200–300 °C.
Result	The spectrum recorded after adsorption of ethanol at room temperature (and outgassing at the same temperature) on sample MgAlW/500 shows, Fig. 7a, in addition to those bands corresponding to ν(CH) and ν(OH) modes at high wavenumbers (not shown), bands between 1480 and 1387, 1272, 1092 cm–1, due to modes δ(CH) and ν(CO) of the ethoxy group, formed upon dissociative adsorption of ethanol on acid–basic surface sites of the solid; a band at 1630 cm–1, due to mode δ(HOH) of molecular water, is also recorded.
Result	When the sample is heated at 100 °C without outgassing, the intensities of the bands mentioned above decrease, and new, although weak, bands are recorded at 1710 and 1640 cm–1 together with a very weak band at 1355 cm–1.
Result	These bands have been recorded also after adsorption of acetaldehyde (see above) and have been ascribed to molecularly adsorbed acetaldehyde and a monomeric enol species or crotonaldehyde.
Result	Probably, in this case they correspond to the former species, as the concentration of acetaldehyde should be rather low.
Result	When the sample is further heated at 200 °C the bands due to molecular acetaldehyde strengthen (especially the bands at 1710 and 1355 cm–1), and a new band develops at 1669 cm–1, which corresponds to acetaldehyde coordinated to surface Lewis acid sites; this band is also recorded after adsorption of acetaldehyde on this sample; simultaneously, the intensities of the bands due to ethoxy species decrease, but no band due to acetate species is recorded, even if the sample is heated at 300 °C.
Result	Bands due to acetaldehyde are removed after outgassing at 200–300 °C.
Result	The spectra recorded after adsorption of ethanol on sample MgAlW/700 (Fig. 8) are different.
Result	Adsorption and outgassing at room temperature gives rise to bands exclusively due to ethoxy species, similar to those recorded after adsorption of the alcohol on sample MgAlW/500.
Result	When the temperature is raised to 100 or 200 °C, without simultaneous outgassing, the spectrum only shows minor changes.
Result	Only after heating at 300 °C, are the weak bands at 1752, 1732, and 1662 cm–1, due to the ν(CO) mode of undissociated acetaldehyde adsorbed on surface Lewis acid sites with different strengths recorded, together with bands at 1587, 1457, 1425, and 1350 cm–1, due to acetate species.
Background	Catalytic decomposition of alcohols to form carbonyl compounds on metal oxides may proceed through (i) simple dehydrogenation, where the presence of molecular oxygen is not essential, the reaction taking place on basic sites and the carbonyl compound is formed together with H2, and (ii) oxidative dehydrogenation, leading to formation of the carbonyl compound and water through a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism;47 in this case, red-ox sites are required, as well as O2 for reoxidation of the catalyst.
Result	Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethanol to acetaldehyde and/or acetic acid may take place on samples MgAlW/500 and MgAlW/700, where Lewis type acid sites (W6+ and Al3+) are present, as evidenced by pyridine adsorption, as well as basic sites (OH– and O2–), due to the presence of strongly basic Mg oxides.
Result	Such a surface basicity is evidenced by bands due to enolate species (CH2CHO–) or crotonaldehyde detected after acetaldehyde adsorption, formation of which takes place easily on basic sites; redox sites also exist (W6+ species).
Result	However, reducibility of tungsten in these solids (W6+ → W4+), is very low, especially in the sample calcined at 700 °C.
Result	The FT-IR spectra indicate that acetaldehyde formation takes place through intermediate ethoxy species, the formation of which has been observed after adsorption of ethanol on both samples studied.
Result	These alcoxy species are formed as a result of dissociative adsorption of the alcohol on the acid–base sites, giving rise to new hydroxyl groups or water molecules (Scheme 1); the band corresponding to mode δ(H2O) at 1630 cm–1 is only observed upon adsorption of ethanol on sample MgAlW/500.
Result	As already mentioned, evolution of ethoxy species to formaldehyde takes place through simple or oxidative dehydrogenation.
Conclusion	As the reducibility of tungsten species is very low in sample MgAlW/700, it may be suggested that on this sample acetaldehyde is formed following the simple dehydrogenation route (Scheme 2), which is favoured in the presence of basic sites.
Conclusion	However, in the case of sample MgAlW/500, in addition to this type of dehydrogenation an oxidative dehydrogenation (Scheme 3) is also possible, because of the larger reducibility of this sample, following a Mars–van Krevelen mechanism,47 where lattice oxygen acts as the oxidant species.
Result	Formation of acetaldehyde takes place at lower temperatures on sample MgAlW/500 than on sample MgAlW/700, and acetate species are not detected on the former sample.
Conclusion	Consequently, sample MgAlW/500 may be a good selective catalyst for acetaldehyde formation, as this species desorbs without further oxidation.
Result	On the contrary, acetaldehyde is formed, together with stable acetate species, on sample MgAlW/700 at higher temperatures (ca. 300 °C) these acetate species can undergo decomposition to CO2, thus decreasing the selectivity to acetaldehyde.
Conclusion	The catalytic behaviour of sample MgAlW/700 is similar to that previously observed48 for WOx/MgO samples prepared by impregnation.
Conclusion	As acid–base and structural properties are very similar for both samples, the different selectivity for acetaldehyde formation can be related to the different dispersion of the tungsten-containing active phase (magnesium tungstates).
Conclusion	The PXRD pattern of sample MgAlW/500 does not evidence formation of crystalline phases, and only amorphous ones (more easily reduced) should be formed; however, the presence of MgWO4 crystalline species (less easily reduced) in sample MgAlW/700 only permits a simple dehydrogenation at higher temperatures.
Conclusion	On the other hand, Cannizzaro disproportionation of acetaldehyde to ethoxy and acetate species has been observed on both samples only at room temperature or at 100 °C, in the presence of gaseous acetaldehyde.

Background	Geometrical vs. statistical models for describing phase transition kinetics in thin films
Problem	We present calculations and simulations to investigate different theories describing phase transitions in thin films, with special emphasis on the growth of the new phase after nucleation.
Problem	In particular, models with geometric and statistical growth rules are compared.
Result	It is demonstrated that the commonly employed geometrical approach, which assumes nucleation and subsequent radial growth of the newly formed phase, has distinct limitations for thin film systems.
Result	More realistic statistical Monte Carlo simulations that are governed by statistical growth rules, predict that a non-spherical (prolate) shape may develop after nucleation at or near a surface or interface.
Result	In addition, the predicted kinetics of the phase transformation is notably different for the geometric vs. the statistical model, for similar parameters.
Problem	The simulation results are compared to recent experiments on the crystallization of thin amorphous solid water films.
Background	The transformation of materials from the amorphous to the crystalline phase and its theoretical description have received considerable attention due to its relevance for areas as diverse as polymer science,1,2 interstellar physical chemistry,3–5 semiconductor technology6 and metallurgy.7
Background	Particular attention has been paid to the kinetics of this transition in thin films, for reasons of experimental sample geometry and to mimic finite-size effects in naturally occurring systems.
Background	For example, the crystallization of amorphous solid water in confined geometries has received significant attention the past decade.5,8–23
Background	There has recently been renewed interest in theories that predict the crystallized fraction as a function of time (as this constitutes the commonly measured quantity), and its sensitivity to the various parameters associated with the phase transition: the nucleation probability, the rate of subsequent growth and the desorption rate of material from the thin films, if pertinent.
Background	These analytical theories (see e.g.refs. 16, 24–26) are based on Avrami’s seminal contribution27 and assume that nucleation sites are randomly distributed throughout the volume (or over the surface) of the initial phase and appear with a fixed probability per unit volume (per unit surface area) per unit time.
Background	The subsequent growth is radial, with a constant velocity.
Background	In these models, the growth criterion is therefore non-local and geometric: if a point within the layer is sufficiently close to a nucleation center, it will have changed phase.
Background	At any point in the layer, the probability for conversion therefore does not depend on the local environment of that point, but depends on how far it is removed from a crystallization nucleus and how much time has elapsed after nucleation, hence the denotation geometric, or non-local.
Method	The geometric model has recently been extended to include the different desorption rates from the different phases in simulations by Ahlström et al.28
Method	Although this geometrical model has been successfully applied in a number of cases,12,16,19,20,23–26,28 it does not account for the finite size of the (molecular) elements in the system.
Method	As a continuum model, the geometrical approach implicitly relies on a sample size well exceeding the size of its molecular constituents; this approximation therefore must break down when the sample size is on the order of typical molecular diameter.
Method	For very small samples, a local, statistical description for the growth would seem more appropriate.
Background	In such a statistical model, the probability for, say, a water molecule to become part of the crystalline phase, is determined by the phase state of its immediate surroundings in a statistical manner; if the surrounding is predominantly crystalline, the chance of phase transformation will be large.
Problem	To investigate possible shortcomings of the non-local geometrical model in finite-size systems, we compare the results of geometrical models with the results of the most basic statistical (local) model that predicts spherical growth in bulk media: an atomistic lattice model simulation29,30 based on a Monte Carlo approach.
Method	As opposed to the non-local growth rule of the geometric model, the Monte Carlo (MC) simulations are characterized by statistical growth behavior in the following manner: a film is subdivided into cells, and the individual cells can crystallize depending on the state of their direct neighbors.
Background	The growth criteria for the MC simulation are the simplest that reproduce three-dimensional spherical growth in the bulk, without any prior knowledge of the energetics of the process.
Result	Although both approaches therefore in principle give rise to the same shape of crystalline domains, a comparison of the MC simulations of the crystallization and growth process (using local, statistical criteria) with the Avrami-type (non-local) geometrical approach for finite sized systems reveals distinct differences between the two methods.
Result	First of all, we demonstrate that the statistical model predicts that the growth rate depends on the size of the converted region, and therefore on time, as opposed to the geometric model that assumes time-independent growth rate.
Background	This effect is not limited to thin films.
Result	Additional discrepancies appear when nucleation occurs at or near the surface or an interface of a thin film.16,24–26
Result	Whereas, again, for the geometrical model the growth rate is constant, for the statistical model the presence of the surface decelerates crystal growth near the surface.
Result	As a result, for the MC simulation, the transformed region does not exhibit the shape of a truncated sphere, as predicted by geometrical models, but rather by a truncated prolate spheroid.
Background	This is not a purely abstract issue, as there have recently been two independent reports for nucleation of the thermodynamically stable phase at the surface: for the crystallization of amorphous solid water23 and polymers31.
Method	As we are interested in very thin films, the film dimensions will be expressed in monolayers (ML) throughout this paper, corresponding to approximately one molecular diameter.
Method	Time will simply be expressed in seconds.
Background	The phase transformation in a thin film, such as the crystallization of amorphous solid water, requires the nucleation and growth of small crystalline domains in the amorphous phase.
Background	In the two models described here, nucleation occurs in the same manner, but the growth rules differ.
Background	Nucleation occurs at random times at random positions within the layer, or on its surface.
Method	The nucleation probability for bulk nucleation is defined per unit volume per unit time Jbulk (expressed in ML−3 s−1).
Method	For nucleation occurring at the surface, it is defined per unit surface area per unit time Jsurf (expressed in ML−2 s−1).
Method	The energy barrier that must be overcome to form a crystalline nucleus is determined by, amongst other, a competition between the surface tension that arises between the two phases upon nucleation (counteracting nucleation) and the difference in chemical potential between the two phases (favoring nucleation, as the crystalline phase is thermodynamically most stable).
Method	As a result, the instantaneously converted volume (critical nucleus size) that appears upon nucleation will contain a significant number of molecules (previously reported to be ∼100 for water crystallization19).
Method	The size of the, assumed to be spherical, critical nucleus is defined by its radius r* (expressed in ML).
Background	The subsequent growth of crystalline domains is modeled in two different manners, as introduced above: through a geometric criterion, and by statistical growth rules, that are explained in the following.
Method	For the MC simulations, a cubic lattice of (100 × 100 × 50) cells is employed, and the different cells are distinguished by their spatial coordinates (x,y,z).
Method	The choice of 50 for the thickness was motivated by recent experiments on the crystallization of amorphous solid water in which a layer thickness of approximately this number of molecules was employed.23
Background	Note, however, that the results described here are not specific to this thickness.
Method	In any case, this comparison to experiment implies that each cell corresponds to one water molecule.
Method	Any of the cells may be untransformed (amorphous) or transformed (crystalline), defined with cell values Θ = 0 and Θ = 1, respectively.
Method	The phase state of each cell is evaluated in every time step Δt employed in the simulations.
Method	The nucleation process is treated in the following manner: For each time step, the discrete number of nucleation events is determined by the nucleation probability Jbulk, in conjunction with the system volume V and time step Δt employed in the simulations.
Method	This number is obtained from a simulated Poisson distribution, whose mean is given by the product JbulkVΔt.
Method	For surface nucleation, the Poisson mean is given by JsurfAΔt, with A the surface area on which nucleation occurs.
Method	The critical nucleus size, whose size is defined by its radius r*, subsequently grows using local, statistical growth rules: a cell at position (x,y,z) has a certain probability of crystallizing either as a result of a nucleation event, or a growth event if one of its 26 neighboring cells is crystalline.
Background	This means that the probability for conversion of the cell is determined by its immediate surroundings (local), as opposed to the geometrical (non-local) growth rule, which simply considers the distance from a nucleation center (see below).
Result	Note that, as depicted in Fig. 1, a cell has three types of neighbors: N1 = 6 direct neighbors that share a face, at a distance of the unit cell size l, N√2 = 12 neighbors that share an edge at a distance of √2l, and N√3 = 8 neighbors that share a corner point, at a distance of √3l.
Method	The probability Ptrans for the crystallinity to propagate to an adjacent cell is inversely proportional to the geometric distance, and linearly proportional to elapsed time.
Background	It is important to note that these growth criteria are the simplest that ensure spherical growth in three dimensions (growth through just nearest-neighbor faces results in a diamond-shaped volume).
Result	It is evident that the criteria for spherical growth such as defined here for a cubic lattice, with hopping probability inversely proportional to the geometric distance to a neighbor, are readily extrapolated to other types of lattices.
Background	Ideally, one would like the growth criteria to be determined by the energetics associated with the growth process.32
Background	Unfortunately, however, for most systems (as is also the case for the transition from amorphous solid water to crystalline ice), very little is known about these energetics.
Background	Therefore we adopt this statistical approach.
Method	At every time step, for each cell that has not yet been transformed, the state of its 26 neighbors is evaluated.
Method	The probability that during this time step this cell will transform equals:with summations over the cell values Θ of the different types of neighboring cells: ΘN1, ΘN√2 and ΘN√3 (Θ = 1 (or 0) for an (un)transformed cell).
Method	Pprop represents the probability to propagate via a face, which is proportional to the time step size and the growth rate.
Method	A random number between zero and one is then computer generated, and if this number is smaller than Ptrans, the value of the cell Θ changes from zero to one as a result of crystallization.
Background	Otherwise, it remains unchanged.
Method	Care was taken to ensure that the results were independent of the size of the time step used in the simulations, i.e. to keep Pprop sufficiently small.
Result	From a set of simulations with varying time step size, it is clear that, if Pprop is set to be smaller than 0.015 per time step, the results converge.
Method	In the simulations reported here, we set Pprop = 0.01 per time step.
Background	For convenience, time is expressed in seconds in the remainder of this report.
Method	To account for contributions of spheres nucleated outside, but grown into, the considered (100 × 100 × 50) volume, the simulation volume is embedded in a larger volume (typically (300 × 300 × 50)), i.e. the lateral dimensions (but not the thickness) of the simulation volume are enlarged by an amount determined by the product of the maximum growth rate and the total simulation time.
Method	The (100 × 100 × 50) volume is then analyzed to determine the time-dependent converted fraction.
Background	We did not use periodic boundary conditions, as the statistical fluctuations in nucleation and growth rates are amplified in that way.
Method	Desorption was included in some of the simulations in a non-statistical manner, simply by reducing the layer thickness from the top as a function of time.
Method	The presented results are averages of 30 simulation runs, to reduce the effects of statistical fluctuations in the growth process.
Method	A set of 30 simulations typically takes 10 h on a desktop personal computer.
Method	The converted volume as a function of time can be obtained by evaluating the summation of cell values over all cells: Vconv = ∑x,y,zΘx,y,z.
Method	The time-dependent crystalline fraction is given by dividing Vconv by the total considered simulation volume.
Method	The time-dependent crystallinity at the surface or at the sample–support interface can be obtained analogously (experimentally, the thin water layers are deposited on a support).
Method	For the model that assumes geometrical (non-local) growth, nucleation occurs as described above, but the description of the growth of the nucleus is governed by geometric considerations: growth simply occurs radially from a nucleation center at geometric rate Ggeo (in units ML s−1).
Method	Thus, if nucleation of the new phase occurs at time τ, and the nucleus has an initial radius r*, then the radius r of the sphere at time t >τ equals r = r* + Ggeo (t − τ).
Method	It is therefore evident that any cell at position (x,y,z) is crystalline if the inequality:is satisfied, for any of the nucleation sites (xi,yi,zi).
Background	If one is interested in the overall kinetics (i.e. the converted crystalline fraction as a function of time) one can derive analytical expressions describing the kinetics, as reported in detail in refs. 16 and 26.
Background	The essence of the derivation of these expressions is that the converted (crystalline) volume is calculated as a function of time for all nucleated regions.
Background	Because the nucleation probability per unit volume and unit time, Jbulk, is independent of elapsed time and position, so-called ‘phantom nuclei’27 may appear in already transformed regions and transformed regions may overlap.
Method	This approach results in the calculation of a time-dependent extended volume N(t) (i.e. doubly counting overlapping regions), from which the real crystalline volume X(t) follows through the relation X(t) = 1 − exp[−N(t)]27.N(t) is calculated by considering all possible nucleation events, i.e. by integrating the function N(t,τ) over all times τ up to time t.
Background	The result can be directly related to the converted fraction of bulk material.
Method	Following26 (neglecting the desorption of material from film), this results in the following expression for N(t), for a layer of thickness d:Similar expressions for the surface and sample–support interface crystallinities can be readily derived following the procedure in ref. 26, as well as the corresponding expressions for surface nucleation.
Background	These expressions including desorption can be found in the same reference.26
Background	In analogy to the statistical growth criterion, one can also perform simulations using a non-local, geometric criterion, as demonstrated previously in .ref. 28
Result	The results of such simulations for the non-local geometric approach are in perfect agreement with the analytical results, the only difference being the discrete nature of the lattice in the simulation that gives rise to a quantized increase in the converted fraction.
Method	Two types of investigations were performed: one with fixed nucleation site, and one with random nucleation throughout the film.
Method	The first allows us to investigate the differences between statistical and geometric growth rules regarding the shape of the transformed volume.
Method	Two limiting cases are considered: nucleation in the center of the film at cell (x,y,z) = (50,50,25), and on the surface at (50,50,1), at time t = 0 s.
Problem	In the second case (random nucleation throughout the film) we investigate the effect of the different types of simulated growth on the time-dependent fraction of converted material, to mimic typical experimental approaches.
Method	For each of these cases (fixed and random nucleation), statistical and geometric growth criteria were employed.
Background	The results for fixed nucleation site will be discussed first.
Method	We first consider nucleation in the precise center of the film, at cell (x,y,z) = (50,50,25), with a critical nucleus consisting of only one cell.
Method	The parameters used in the simulation were Δt = 0.1 s and Pprop = 0.01 per time step Δt.
Result	Although both models indeed produce spherical growth, a number of striking differences appear between the two models.
Result	The first is that the rate of radial growth, which is defined as constant in the non-local geometric model, increases in the course of time in the MC simulations for statistical growth by a factor of 6.
Method	For the non-local geometrical model, the growth rate Ggeo is simply defined as the rate of change in the sphere radius r, i.e. Ggeo = ∂r/∂t.
Method	In the MC simulation, for statistical growth, the sphere is not necessarily perfectly round and compact, but we can still define an effective radius reff by calculating the radius corresponding to the converted volume Vconv = ∑x,y,zΘx,y,z, as if it were a perfect sphere: .
Method	Thus, we can compare the geometric non-local growth rate with that observed in the statistical MC simulations by comparing Ggeo with the time-dependent radial growth rate in the MC simulations defined as: GMC = ∂reff/∂t.
Result	These quantities are plotted vs. time in Fig. 2.
Background	The time range (0–14 s) is sufficiently small so that the sphere does not reach the sample edges.
Result	For the parameter set Δt = 0.1 s and Pprop = 0.01, the long-time growth equals ∼1.58 ML s−1 for the MC simulations.
Result	For the non-local geometric model, the growth rate is set to be Ggeo = 1.58 ML s−1 in eqns. (2) and (3) and is, of course, time-independent.
Background	The increase in the growth rate observed in the statistical MC model can be understood as follows: consider an untransformed cell at the edge of the transformed volume.
Background	In the very beginning, there is only one pathway for the considered cell to become transformed, through the face of the adjacent, initially transformed cell at (50,50,25).
Background	In other words, the curvature of the crystallized ‘sphere’ is so large, that only one pathway is available.
Background	When the radius becomes very large (and the curvature small) a cell bordering the transformed volume will experience the oncoming transformed front as a flat front, and there will be nine pathways for the cell to become transformed: one as before, and an additional eight from cells sharing cube edges and corner points (four and four, respectively).
Method	The growth probability per time step therefore increases from Pprop at small times to (Pprop + 4Pprop/√2 + 4Pprop/√3) at large times.
Method	For growth along a linear, one-dimensional chain, it is clear that the growth rate is given by GMC = 2Pprop/Δt, the factor of two accounting for the fact that growth will occur in two directions.
Result	This should also be the initial growth rate for our system, as borne out in the simulations: GMC = 0.2 ML s−1 for t → 0 (see Fig. 2).
Problem	For long times, one might expect a growth rate of GMC(t → ∞) = 2(Pprop + 4Pprop/√2 + 4Pprop/√3)/Δt = 1.23 ML s−1, following the reasoning above.
Result	The observed long-time growth rate is larger than this simple estimate, amounting to ∼1.58 ML s−1.
Conclusion	This is due to the fact that there are additional, indirect pathways through the three-dimensional system (not considered in the simple argument presented above) that contribute to the growth rate.
Background	We find the phenomenological relationship GMC (t → ∞) ≈15.8 Pprop/Δt, which will be used below.
Method	The black line in Fig. 2 is the prediction of the time-dependent growth rate from the aforementioned simple considerations: this calculated rate is related to the curvature of the sphere, 1/reff through G = 1.58 − 1/reff.
Result	It provides a reasonable description of the simulation results.
Conclusion	Hence it is evident that the main contribution to the time-dependent growth rate originates from the time-dependent curvature of the transformed sphere.
Result	It should be noted that the limiting large-radius value for GMC, GMC (t → ∞), is reached relatively soon, in terms of the transformed volume, as demonstrated in the inset of Fig. 2.
Result	For example, for a critical nucleus containing 100 cells (i.e. water molecules),19 the initial growth rate is 0.7 G∞, rather than 0.13 G∞ for a nucleus of size one.
Result	Besides the different growth rates, a second marked difference between the statistical and the geometrical model is that the transformed region reaches the surface appreciably earlier for the statistical MC results, despite the slower initial growth.
Result	This is illustrated in Fig. 3, which shows the radii of the two differently growing spheres.
Background	The plot depicts rbulk − the bulk radius derived from the volume of the sphere – and rsurf – the radius of the circle of the exposed area of the sphere at the surface.
Background	The expressions for rbulk and rsurf read: , as introduced above, and, analogously, , i.e. proportional to the square root of the area associated with cells that have crystallized at the surface.
Result	It is evident from Fig. 3 that for identical long-time growth rates (i.e. Ggeo = GMC (t → ∞) = 1.58 ML s−1), the transformed sphere reaches the surface at t = 13 s for the MC simulation, and at t = 16 s for the non-local geometrical model, despite the fact that the radius of the geometrical sphere is ∼20% greater than the effective radius of the (statistical) MC result at this time, owing to the delayed initial growth for the MC sphere.
Result	Whereas the geometrically grown sphere is fully compact, the MC sphere is not; it has a fill factor of roughly ∼80%, with a strongly non-uniform crystalline density (the center is mostly crystalline).
Conclusion	As a result, the sphere may reach the surface before rbulk = 25 ML, which is the geometric criterion for reaching the surface.
Result	The non-compact nature of the MC sphere is illustrated in the right panel of Fig. 3, which depicts a slice through the xy-plane at z = 25 for a sphere that nucleated at point (50,50,25), i.e. through the center of the sphere, from one randomly chosen simulation run.
Background	It is evident that in real life, the precise shape of a cross section such as presented in Fig. 3 is the result of many competing factors, such as entropy (favoring a ‘rough’ sphere surface), surface tension (favoring a perfect circle) by possible variations in local growth rate due to e.g. density fluctuations and varying growth rates along different crystallographic axes.
Background	Neither of the models presented here takes these effects into account, as very little is known about these effects.
Background	In addition, potential effects of the underlying support that is present in the experiments are neglected, as these effects can be suppressed for appropriate substrates.23
Background	A third difference between crystal growth determined by statistical and geometric rules is the shape of the crystalline domain in the proximity of the surface(s).
Background	Whereas for the non-local (geometrical) case, this shape is always a (truncated) sphere, for the statistical growth criterion the domain deviates from spherical growth, resulting in a deformed crystalline domain shape.
Background	This is most clear for nucleation immediately at the surface (center placed at point (50,50,1)).
Result	This is illustrated in Fig. 4, which depicts the simulation volume projected onto one of its sides, i.e. integrated over one of the coordinates parallel to the surface: I(y,z) = ∑xΘx,y,z, for both the non-local geometrical and the statistical MC model.
Result	In addition to the non-spherical behavior of the MC model, it is also clear from Fig. 4 that the apparent nucleation site is situated ∼5 cells below the surface (at z = 5), although the real site is at z = 1.
Result	This is clearly observed from the contour lines (also plotted in the graph).
Background	This somewhat surprising result can be understood in the following manner: Consider 2 cells, at the same distance from the surface nucleation site (N), but one straight down into the bulk (A) and one in the plane of the surface (B).
Background	In the non-local, geometrical growth model, as the distances N–A and N–B are identical, A and B become crystalline at the same point in time, and lie on the same contour line.
Background	With the statistical (local) growth rules, crystallization of cells A and B can occur through one of the many pathways by which the crystalline front can propagate from cell N. However, due to the broken symmetry at the surface, it is clear that there are roughly twice as many pathways from N to A, as there are from N to B, as the crystalline phase cannot propagate through vacuum.
Background	As a result, growth of the nucleus along the coordinate parallel to the surface plane is slower than growth along the coordinate perpendicular to the surface.
Background	A consequence of this behavior is that the exposed surface area of the converted volume is smaller than what one would expect from the non-local geometric model.
Method	This effect can be quantified by considering the ratio of rbulk (now defined as , since only half a sphere is formed) and rsurf, defined as above.
Method	The anisotropy in rbulk/rsurf is a good measure for the deviation from spherical behavior, as, in case of surface nucleation, it always equals 1 for the geometrical model.
Result	Fig. 5 represents the time-dependent anisotropy in apparent radii in the bulk and at the surface, and demonstrates that this effect is largest for short times.
Background	As mentioned already briefly above, it should be stressed that both the models described here are phenomenological and neither explicitly takes into account the thermodynamic quantities that are relevant for the crystallization and growth process.
Background	In particular, for the crystallization of water, which is driven by the difference in chemical potential between the two phases, the nucleation and growth will be determined by surface tension between the two phases and density effects.
Background	For instance, the effect of the density difference between the amorphous and the crystalline phase (0.94 g cm−321 and 0.93 g cm−3,13 respectively) will raise the nucleation barrier, and presumably impede growth of larger crystallites due to strain effects.
Background	For crystalline grains reaching the surface, additional contributions arise: first, the three-phase line tension must be taken into account, which will raise the free energy as a larger part of the surface is converted, and therefore will slow down the growth along the surface.
Background	Secondly, there is a surface tension difference between the amorphous–vacuum interface and the crystalline–vacuum interface.
Background	Unfortunately, the magnitude, and sometimes even the sign, of many of these quantities are unknown.
Background	This is one of the motivations for taking the most simple approaches to both the statistical and geometric growth.
Problem	To investigate to what extent the aforementioned effects influence the interpretation of experimental results, we investigate the quantity that is generally determined experimentally: the time-dependent fraction of converted material.
Method	Although both surface and bulk fractions are experimentally accessible, for simplicity we will first restrict ourselves to the bulk fraction, for nucleation of the new phase occurring in the bulk of the material.
Method	We use values for the nucleation and growth parameters that have been reported previously for crystallization kinetics of thin water films: Jbulk = 2.0 × 10−7 ML−3 s−1 and G = 5.0 × 10−2 ML s−1.28
Method	Whereas J is uniquely defined in both the non-local geometric and the statistical MC simulations, the growth rate G is only in the former, as in the MC simulations, G depends both on time and the initial critical nucleus size.
Method	In the simulations, we choose the numerical parameters Pprop and Δt such that GMC (t → ∞) = 5.0 × 10−2 ML s−1, since GMC (t → ∞) = 15.8 Pprop/Δt (see above).
Method	To be as realistic as possible, we chose a critical nucleus size of not only r* = 0.5 ML (corresponding to a nucleus of one cell in diameter) but also r* = 3 ML, the latter corresponding to a critical nucleus containing 93 cells (the specific value of 93 is dictated by the discrete character of the lattice), in agreement with previous estimates of the critical nucleus.28
Background	The Monte Carlo approach is further detailed in the section ‘approach’ above.
Result	The results of these simulations for both the non-local geometric and statistical MC models are depicted together in Fig. 6; there is a clear discrepancy between the results of the two models, despite the identical nucleation parameters.
Result	It is interesting to note that in both cases the shapes of the two curves are nearly identical, but the MC result is offset in time due to the time-dependent growth rate.
Result	As expected, the temporal offset is largest for r* = 0.5 ML, as the initial growth rate for the small nucleus is relatively low (see Fig. 2).
Result	For the case of r* = 3.0 ML, the geometrical model describes the kinetics observed in the MC simulations best with parameter values J = 6.0 × 10−8 ML−3s−1, G = 7.0 × 10−2 ML s−1 (keeping r* fixed at 3.0 ML), i.e. significantly different from the parameter values used in the simulations.
Problem	Finally, we make a direct comparison to experiments recently reported in .ref. 23
Background	In these experiments, surface crystallization of a thin amorphous water film was reported.
Background	Here, we compare results of the geometric and statistical models with previously inferred26 crystallization parameters: Jsurf = 4.5 × 10−7 ML−3 s−1, G = 0.17 ML s−1, rdes = 0.04 ML s−1 and r* = 3.0 ML.
Result	The results of the calculations, performed for a layer of 45 ML thickness (instead of 50 ML as in the previous part of this paper), are plotted in Fig. 7, from which it is immediately evident that the results of the two models are not very different.
Result	The main difference is the smaller temporal separation between the calculated surface and bulk fractions for the statistical model compared to the geometrical one.
Conclusion	This is a consequence of the non-spherical shape that appears for surface nucleation in the statistical model, with growth lagging in the surface plane; As a result, the surface crystallinity is retarded compared to the geometrical case.
Result	The observation that there is no significant time lag for all three curves (as opposed to the results presented in Fig. 6) can be understood by noting that, for the surface nucleation parameters used in the calculations, the crystalline growth advances through the layer as one front, as depicted in the inset in Fig. 7.
Background	As nucleation occurs in one plane, the converted regions appear close to each other, allowing them to merge relatively soon.
Result	The long-time growth rate GMC (t → ∞) is therefore reached at an early time, also due to the relatively large r* = 3.0 ML.
Result	It is evident that for these nucleation parameters, the difference between statistical and geometrical growth is rather small; this, however, is not necessarily true for other systems, and depends intricately on the values of the nucleation parameters.
Problem	We have investigated the effect of different crystallization models on the observed phase transition kinetics in thin films.
Method	A simple statistical Monte Carlo routine is presented that allows us to follow the phase transition in space and time.
Result	A comparison between the result of these Monte Carlo simulations and the routinely employed geometric models reveal a time-dependent growth rate for statistical growth, whereas the growth rate is assumed constant for geometric models.
Result	Moreover, the assumed spherical shape for geometric models is not observed for statistical growth for nucleation at or near a surface.
Conclusion	A comparison to recent experimental results demonstrates that the consequences of these effects on the analysis of experimental data in thin films depend on the precise nucleation parameters, and may be small.

Problem	Electroreduction of tantalum fluoride in a room temperature ionic liquid at variable temperatures
Problem	The present paper deals with the electroreduction of TaF5 in the room temperature ionic liquid 1-butyl-1-methyl-pyrrolidinium bis(tri-fluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([BMP]Tf2N) at different temperatures for the sake of electrodeposition of tantalum.
Method	The study was carried out using cyclic voltammetry and chronoamperometry measurements complemented by SEM-EDAX and XRD investigations.
Method	In situ scanning tunneling microscopy and I–U tunneling spectroscopy were also utilized for characterization of the electrodeposits.
Result	The results show that, in addition to the formation of insoluble compounds, Ta can be electrodeposited in the ionic liquid ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.5 M TaF5 at 200 °C on polycrystalline Pt and Au(111) electrodes.
Result	By addition of LiF to the electrolyte, the quality and the adherence of the electrodeposit were found to be improved.
Result	An in situI–U tunneling spectrum with about 300 nm thickness of the electrodeposit shows metallic behaviour indicating the formation of elemental tantalum.
Result	Moreover, the XRD patterns of the electrodeposit, obtained potentiostatically at −1.8 V (vs. Pt) in ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.25 M TaF5 and 0.25 M LiF on Pt electrode at 200 °C, show the characteristic patterns of crystalline tantalum.
Background	Tantalum has unique properties that make it useful for many applications, from electronics to mechanical and chemical systems.1
Background	Its high melting point, ductility, toughness, and excellent corrosion resistance make it an attractive coating material for components exposed to high temperature, wear, and severe chemical environments.
Background	Because of its good thermal stability at elevated temperatures, thin layers of tantalum are applied as diffusion barriers on silicon in ultralarge-scale integrated (ULSI) circuits to prevent copper atoms from diffusion into dielectrics or silicon substrate.2
Background	In addition, as tantalum is almost completely resistant to body fluids and non-irritating for human tissue, it has been widely used for making appliance and implants.
Background	The corrosion resistance of tantalum is attributed to a thin protective oxide film that forms spontaneously in air and that exhibits a high stability in most mineral acids, even in concentrated and hot ones, except in hydrofluoric acid or fuming sulfuric acid.3–5
Background	Many efforts have been made to develop an electroplating process for the electrodeposition of Ta.
Method	High temperature molten salts were found to be efficient baths for the electrodeposition of refractory metals.
Background	Senderoff and Mellors have reported the first results on the electrodeposition of coherent coatings of Nb, Ta, Zr and Mo on steel from molten fluorides.6–12
Method	For tantalum deposition, they have used the ternary eutectic mixture LiF–NaF–KF as a solvent and K2TaF7 as a source of Ta at temperature between 650 and 850 °C.7,8
Method	Using the same eutectic mixture and K2TaF7 as a source of Ta, Dutra et al13. have reported that compact Ta deposits, free of dendrites, can be obtained using pulse currents.
Background	Chamelot et al14,15. have shown the optimum conditions for tantalum electroplating in the electrolyte LiF–NaF–K2TaF7 at a temperature of 800 °C.
Method	Lantelme et al16. have stated that Ta can be electrodeposited from NaCl–KCl–K2TaF7 melts at 720 °C.
Background	They have found that the quality of the deposit improves on addition of NaF to the melt.
Method	As noticed, the use of high temperature molten salts of alkali metal halides as electrolytes has been the only possible way to electrodeposit Ta.
Method	However, these baths have many technical and economic problems, such as the loss in the current efficiency of the electrolysis process, due to the dissolution of metal after its deposition,17 and the expected corrosion problems at high temperatures.
Background	To the best of our knowledge, until now no successful attempts have been made for Ta electrodeposition at room temperature or even at low temperature in ionic liquids.
Method	Only one attempt to electrodeposit Ta at 100 °C in a mixture of TaCl5, LiF and 1-ethyl-3-methyl imidazolium chloride [(EMIm) Cl] has been reported.18
Method	The authors claim that they could make Ta films of thickness up to 100 μm in the former bath with a composition of 30 mol% TaCl5, 10 mol% LiF and 60 mol% (EMIm) Cl.
Method	It is worth noting that we could not electrodeposit tantalum using the same bath composition.
Problem	Therefore, it seemed of interest to study the electroreduction of TaF5 in the water and air stable ionic liquid 1-butyl-1-methyl pyrrolidinium bis(tri-fluoromethylsulfonyl)imide for the sake of Ta electrodeposition.
Method	In comparison to the imidazolium based ionic liquids, depending on the substrate the cathodic limit for irreversible cation reduction is about 500 mV wider.
Method	The electroreduction of tantalum fluoride was studied in the water and air stable ionic liquid 1-butyl-1-methyl-pyrrolidinium bis(tri-fluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([BMP]Tf2N) which was purchased from Merck KGaA (EMD).
Method	The liquid was dried under vacuum for 12 h at a temperature of 100 °C to water contents below 3 ppm (by Karl–Fischer titration) and stored in an argon filled glove box with water and oxygen below 1 ppm (OMNI-LAB from Vacuum-Atmospheres).
Result	In cyclic voltammograms on platinum there is no evidence for electrochemically active water.
Method	TaF5 (Alfa, 99,99%) and LiF (Alfa, 98,5%) were used without further purification.
Method	The cyclic voltammetry measurements were performed in the glove box using a VersaStat™ II Potentiostat/Galvanostat (Princeton Applied Research) controlled by PowerCV and PowerStep software.
Method	Gold substrates of Arrandee (gold films of 200–300 nm thickness deposited on chromium-covered borosilicate glass), Au(111) on mica purchased from Molecular Imaging and platinum sheet of thickness 0.5 mm (Alfa, 99,99%) were used as working electrodes, respectively.
Method	Directly before use, the gold substrates were very carefully heated in a hydrogen flame to red glow, Pt-substrates were cleaned for 10 min in an ultrasonic bath in acetone, then heated in a hydrogen flame to red for a few minutes.
Method	Pt-wires (Alfa, 99,99%) were used as reference and counter electrodes.
Method	For the measurements at room temperature, the electrochemical cell was made of polytetrafluoroethylene (Teflon) and clamped over a Teflon covered Viton o-ring onto the substrate, thus yielding a geometric surface area of 0.3 cm2.
Method	At elevated temperature, a quartz round flask was used as an electrochemical cell.
Result	There is no evidence that the quartz flask is etched by the fluoride of TaF5.
Method	Prior to use, all parts in contact with the solution were thoroughly cleaned in a mixture of 50/50 vol% H2SO4/H2O2 followed by refluxing in pyrogene free water ((aqua destillata ad iniectabilia).
Method	The STM experiments were performed with in-house built STM heads and scanners under inert gas conditions (H2O and O2 < 1 ppm) with a Molecular Imaging Pico Scan 2500 STM controller in feedback mode.
Method	The STM experiments were performed in an air conditioned laboratory with ΔT < ±1 °C.
Method	Usually the approach is done overnight so that during the STM measurement a thermal equilibrium is obtained giving rise to a minimum thermal drift.
Method	STM tips were prepared by electrochemical etching of tungsten wires (0.25 mm diameter) and electrophoretically coated with an electropaint (BASF ZQ 84-3225 0201).
Method	During the STM experiments the electrode potential was controlled by the PicoStat from Molecular Imaging.
Method	For the current/voltage tunnelling spectroscopy the tip was positioned on the site of interest and the tip voltage was scanned between an upper and a lower limit.
Method	During this procedure the feedback is switched off.
Method	A high resolution field emission scanning electron microscope (Carl Zeiss DSM 982 Gemini) was utilized to investigate the surface morphology of the deposited film and energy dispersive X-ray analysis was used to determine the film composition.
Method	The XRD diffractograms of the deposited aluminium were acquired by Siemens D-5000 diffractometer with Co Kα radiation.
Result	Fig. 1 shows the cyclic voltammogram of 1-butyl-1-methyl-pyrrolidinium bis(tri-fluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([BMP]Tf2N) ionic liquid containing 0.5 M TaF5 on platinum electrode at room temperature.
Method	The electrode potential was scanned from the open circuit potential, −0.2 V vs. Pt, in the negative direction at a rate of 10 mV s−1.
Conclusion	As seen, the cyclic voltammogram exhibits only one cathodic process in the forward scan at −1.6 V vs. Pt with a current peak of ca. −2.1 mA at −2.2 V. The reduction peak may be attributed to the electrodeposition of Ta or to other insoluble tantalum compounds at the electrode surface.
Result	At such electrode potential, the formation of a black deposit on the electrode surface is clearly visible.
Conclusion	The peak current of the reduction peak shows a square root dependence on the scan rate revealing that the reduction process is mainly controlled by diffusion of the electroactive species to the electrode surface.
Result	At a potential of about −2.4 V, the reduction of the organic cation of the ionic liquid starts to occur.
Result	In the reverse scan, the cathodic current continues to flow and crosses the forward scan at negative currents.
Result	This current loop is typical for nucleation processes.
Result	The anodic scan crosses the voltage axis at a potential of about −1.3 V producing a cathodic overpotential of about −0.3 V for the deposition process.
Result	The anodic peak observed on the anodic scan at about 0.25 V is attributed to the incomplete stripping of the electrodeposit.
Result	This can be confirmed by the almost complete removing of the black deposit.
Result	However, the ratio of anodic to cathodic charge is lower than one, revealing some irreversibility of this system.
Conclusion	Stripping seems to be kinetically hindered, which is a common phenomenon in air and water stable ionic liquids.
Method	The potential was set at −2.3 V for 1 h to form a thick layer of the electrodeposit on the electrode surface.
Result	Visually, the deposit is black and appears to be thick and less adhering to the surface since it can easily be removed by washing with acetone.
Method	As we assumed some kinetic hindrance in the formation of elemental tantalum, we performed the electrodeposition of Ta in the same ionic liquid at different temperatures, 100, 150 and 200 °C.
Background	We would like to mention here that air and water stable ionic liquids are well suited to variable temperature studies.
Background	In our experience, ([BMP]Tf2N) ionic liquid remains stable up to at least 300 °C under inert gas conditions.
Result	Fig. 2 shows the effect of increasing the temperature on the cyclic voltammograms of ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.5 M TaF5 on platinum electrode at a scan rate of 10 mV s−1.
Result	As can be seen the cyclic voltammograms exhibit a somewhat different behaviour compared with the cyclic voltammogram at room temperature.
Result	Here, the cyclic voltammograms show two reduction peaks on the cathodic branch and two oxidation peaks on the anodic branch of the cyclic voltammograms.
Conclusion	The first cathodic peak is assumed to be correlated to the electrolytic reduction of Ta(v) to Ta(iii), since TaF3 is known to be a stable compound.
Conclusion	The second reduction peak might be attributed to the reduction of Ta(iii) to Ta(0), as a black deposit is clearly seen even by the naked eye.
Conclusion	In the backward scan, the first anodic peak might be attributed to the oxidation of Ta to Ta(iii) and the second peak is correlated to oxidation Ta(iii) to Ta(v).
Conclusion	Here it is also evident that the reoxidation of the deposit is not fully reversible.
Result	The peak currents of both the reduction and oxidation peaks also depend linearly on the square root of the scan rate, indicating diffusion control.
Result	As shown in Fig. 2, the peak potentials of the cathodic peaks slightly shift to less negative values and the potential of the oxidation peaks slightly move to the positive direction with increase in temperature.
Result	The peak currents of the reduction and oxidation peaks remarkably increase with rising temperature.
Result	This is due to the increased mobility of the electroactive species towards the electrode surface which, in turn, leads to increasing the reaction rate, either of the reduction or oxidation.
Background	Both conductivity and viscosity of such types of ionic liquids are strongly dependent on temperature.
Result	The mechanical quality and adherence of the deposit were found to be superior to room temperature deposits.
Result	At 200 °C, the deposit appears to be dendritic and it is better adherent than those which were obtained at 100 or 150 °C.
Result	Nevertheless, the deposits can be removed by ultrasonic cleaning with acetone in all cases.
Result	The SEM micrograph of such a deposit made at 200 °C at −1.3 V for 1 h is presented in Fig. 3a.
Result	As seen, the electrodeposit contains mainly granules and was analysed as a tantalum species containing C, O, F and S as revealed from the accompanying EDAX profile, Fig. 3b.
Result	A typical ratio of the surface concentration (wt.%) of Ta/F is 4.2/1, as determined by EDAX analysis.
Result	The presence of C, O, F and S is due to the remaining ionic liquid at the electrode surface.
Result	Nevertheless, this layer can be removed by washing with isopropanol followed by boiling in water.
Result	After such treatment only crystalline and elemental Ta can be detected at the electrode surface using XRD, EDAX and AES.
Background	Further studies are currently in progress and will be published in a future paper.
Problem	In order to know whether or not the electrodeposit contains crystalline tantalum, X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD) were acquired.
Result	Surprisingly, the XRD patterns of the initial electrodeposits showed only the characteristic patterns of the Pt substrate, and there was no evidence for crystalline tantalum.
Conclusion	This means that the electrodeposits are either amorphous or so small in their particle size that within the resolution of our device no XRD patterns could be obtained.
Method	In order to improve the crystallinity of the electrodeposits, the sample was annealed at 800 °C under vacuum (10−4 mbar) for 5 h, then the sample was reinvestigated by XRD.
Result	Now XRD patterns show clearly the characteristic signals of crystalline Ta (JCPDS 25-1280, 19-1290 and 04-0788) and Ta2O5 (JCPDS 21-1198 and 19-1298), Fig. 4.
Result	These results confirm that the electrodeposits contain crystalline Ta.
Conclusion	It is not too surprising that Ta2O5 forms, as at such vacuum there is enough trace oxygen that can oxidize our tantalum.
Result	Furthermore, an EDAX analysis showed that there remained no fluoride in the deposit after thermal annealing.
Conclusion	This might indicate that the low valent Ta–F compounds have a high vapour pressure.
Conclusion	The results presented here imply that first a thin crystalline tantalum layer is deposited (about 200–300 nm) on top of which a non-stoichiometric tantalum subfluoride layer with some trapped ionic liquid grows with thicknesses of several micrometers.
Result	Fig. 5 shows the cyclic voltammogram of ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.5 M TaF5 on Au(111) at room temperature.
Result	As shown, two reduction processes are recorded in the forward scan.
Result	The first one starts at a potential of −0.5 V with a peak at −0.75 V, it might again be correlated to the electrolytic reduction of Ta(v) to Ta(iii).
Result	The second process starts at a potential of −1.5 V and is accompanied by the formation of a black deposit on the electrode surface.
Result	This can be attributed to the reduction of Ta(iii) to Ta metal simultaneously with the formation of insoluble tantalum compounds on the electrode surface.
Result	The anodic peak recorded on the backward scan is due to the dissolution of the electrodeposit which, however, does not seem to be complete.
Result	Then the anodic current increases as a result of gold dissolution at E > 1.5 V. Unlike the behaviour of this system on polycrystalline Pt at room temperature, the electrochemical reduction of Ta(v) obviously occurs in two steps on Au(111).
Result	However, as in the case of Pt, the deposit obtained on gold is also less adherent and can easily be removed by washing with acetone.
Result	Furthermore, the bulk phase of this deposit does not show XRD patterns.
Result	The cyclic voltammogram of ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.5 M TaF5 on gold substrate at a temperature of 200 °C is shown in Fig. 6.
Result	The electrochemical reduction of Ta(v) also occurs in two steps as revealed by the presence of two cathodic peaks in the forward scan.
Result	The first cathodic process starts at about −0.5 V which is presumably the result of the reduction of Ta(v) to Ta(iii) and the second process starts at a potential of about −1.1 V, accompanied by the deposition of a black layer on the electrode surface.
Result	In the reverse scan, a shoulder was recorded at a potential of about −0.1 V which presumably represents the first oxidation step of Ta to Ta(iii).
Result	Then, at about 0.3 V, dissolution of the electrodeposit sets in.
Result	The large increase in anodic current at a potential of 1 V is due to electrochemical dissolution of gold.
Result	It is worthy of mentioning that the mechanical quality and the adherence of the electrodeposits improve at 200 °C.
Result	The SEM micrograph of Fig. 7a shows the surface morphology of a thick layer of the electrodeposit prepared potentiostatically at a potential of −1.2 V vs. Pt for 1 h at 200 °C.
Result	The deposit appears to be thick and dense and contains a few cracks.
Background	It is a common observation that during the electrodeposition process, internal or residual stress can occur causing fine cracks in the deposit.
Method	We tried to remove the deposited layer (by ultrasonic cleaning in acetone) and to investigate the bare surface of the substrate.
Problem	Our aim was to investigate whether or not the surface is covered by a thin and compact film of Ta, before the formation of the thick deposit started.
Result	Fig. 7b shows a SEM micrograph of the gold substrate after removing the thick deposit using ultrasonic treatment in acetone until the bare surface of gold is recovered.
Result	As seen, there are many remaining islands of Ta which are tightly bound to the surface.
Result	The deposit contains fine crystallites with sizes well below 100 nm, as shown in the SEM micrograph of Fig. 7c which represents the area shown in the white square in Fig. 7b.
Result	EDAX profile taken within the marked area shown in the micrograph of Fig. 7b reveals the presence of Ta on the surface and very small amount of N and C which might originate from some trapped ionic liquid, Fig. 7d.
Result	It is interesting to mention that within the resolution of the EDAX detector we did not find any hint for fluoride.
Conclusion	In the light of the aforementioned results, we may conclude that tantalum can be electrodeposited from ([BMP]Tf2N) containing TaF5.
Conclusion	However, the quality of thick layers of the electrodeposit needs to be improved since in addition to the metal deposition, also insoluble tantalum compounds might be formed owing to side reactions.
Conclusion	This is maybe the reason for the bad adherence of a thick layer of the deposit because it does not solely contain metallic Ta.
Background	In situ STM measurements under potentiostatic conditions can give valuable information on the electrodeposition of Ta in the employed ionic liquid ([BMP]Tf2N).
Result	The STM picture of Fig. 8a shows a typical surface of gold on mica substrate (Au(111)) in the ionic liquid ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.5 M TaF5 at open circuit potential.
Result	As seen, the surface is characterized by terraces with average step heights of about 250 pm, typical for Au(111).
Result	By applying a potential of −1.25 V (vs. Pt) (see Fig. 5), the nature of the surface changes as seen in the STM picture of Fig. 8b.
Result	A rough layer of Ta is formed rapidly and some triangularly shaped islands with heights of several nanometers grow above the deposited layer (Fig. 8b).
Result	With ongoing time, these islands grow vertically and laterally and finally merge together to a thick layer.
Result	The 3-D STM picture of Fig. 9a shows the topography of the electrodeposit, with a thickness of about 300 nm.
Method	The thickness of the deposit was determined in situ from the z-position of piezo, which is a standard procedure in our laboratories.
Problem	In order to investigate if the in situ deposit is metallic or not, current/voltage tunneling spectroscopy was conducted.
Background	It was already shown by us that the I–U tunneling spectroscopy is a valuable technique for in situ characterization of electrodeposited semiconductors19–21 and metals.
Background	We could show with the in situI–U tunnelling spectroscopy that germanium with layer thicknesses of 20 nm and more is semiconducting with a symmetric band gap of 0.7 ± 0.1 eV.19,20
Background	On the other hand, we have found that very thin layers of germanium with thicknesses of several monolayes exhibit clearly metallic behaviour.19,20
Background	In the case of silicon, we could show for the first time that in an ionic liquid elemental silicon can be obtained which has at room temperature a band gap of 1.0 ± 0.2 eV for a layer of 100 nm thickness.21
Result	A typical in situ tunneling spectrum of a 300 nm thick layer of the electrodeposit at different positions is shown in Fig. 9b.
Result	As seen, the I–U spectrum exhibits metallic behaviour with an exponential-like rise of the current (see ref. 22) indicating that the electrodeposited layer seems to be elemental Ta.
Conclusion	Together with the ex situ measurements we can conclude that the initial reduction of TaF5 in ([BMP]Tf2N) leads to a very thin layer of metallic tantalum.
Conclusion	However, detailed STM and tunneling spectroscopy studies are required and are currently running in our laboratories.
Problem	We would like to report on some experiments, where we added LiF to the above mentioned ionic liquid containing TaF5.
Background	From literature data in high temperature molten salts, it was found that addition of fluorides of alkali metals, such as LiF or NaF, to the fused salts facilitates the electrodeposition of tantalum.13–16
Problem	Therefore, it seemed of interest to examine the effect of adding LiF to the employed ionic liquid containing TaF5 on the electrodeposition of Ta.
Result	We found that the mechanical quality and the adherence of the electrodeposited Ta in ([BMP]Tf2N) containing TaF5 can be improved by addition of LiF to the electrolyte.
Result	Fig. 10 shows the cyclic voltammogram of ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.25 M TaF5 and 0.25 M LiF on Pt electrode at 200 °C.
Result	Here, three cathodic peaks are recorded in the forward scan before reduction of the organic cation of the ionic liquid sets in at E = −2.2 V. This observation indicates that the reduction of Ta(v) to Ta metal obviously occurs in at least three steps and not in two steps as in the case of LiF absence.
Result	The SEM micrograph of such a deposit (Fig. 11a) made at −1.8 V for 1 h at 200 °C shows a smooth, coherent and dense layer.
Result	The electrodeposit was analysed as metallic tantalum, as revealed from the corresponding XRD patterns (Fig. 11b) which show four characteristic peaks of crystalline Ta (JCPDS 25-1280, 19-1290 and 04-0788).
Result	The peaks are pretty sharp though of low intensity compared to the peaks of the substrate.
Result	However, for micrometer thick layers we still find varying amounts of fluoride in the deposit.
Conclusion	The role of LiF in the deposition process is not clear at the moment.
Conclusion	Maybe due to the ionic polarizability of Li+ the Ta–F bonds are weakened leading to a facilitation of Ta deposition.
Conclusion	Further work is now under progress in our laboratory to shed more light on the influence of addition of lithium salts.
Conclusion	Moreover, detailed in situ STM experiments are currently performed.
Conclusion	We have presented the first results on the electroreduction of TaF5 in the ionic liquid 1-butyl-1-methylpyrrolidinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide ([BMP]Tf2N) at different temperatures with the aim of tantalum electrodeposition.
Conclusion	It was found that the electrodeposition of tantalum at room temperature is not straightforward.
Result	However, at 200 °C Ta can be electrodeposited in addition to the formation of insoluble tantalum compounds on the electrode surface.
Result	The quality and the adherence of the electrodeposit were found to be improved upon addition of LiF to the electrolyte.
Result	XRD patterns of the electrodeposit, obtained potentiostatically at −1.8 V in ([BMP]Tf2N) containing 0.25 M TaF5 and 0.25 M LiF on Pt electrode at 200 °C, clearly show the characteristic patterns of crystalline tantalum.
Result	Furthermore, in situI–U tunneling spectra of about 300 nm thick layers show metallic behaviour indicating the formation of elemental tantalum.
Conclusion	Our studies show that the electrodeposition of Ta in the ionic liquid ([BMP]Tf2N) at low temperature is possible.
Conclusion	However, to obtain bulk tantalum layers further work is needed.

Problem	The anomeric effect in 1,3-benzodioxole: additional evidence from the rotational, vibration–rotation and rovibronic spectra
Result	The millimetre wave pure rotation and vibration–rotation spectrum of 1,3-benzodioxole has been studied and the vibrational spacing between the two lowest vibrational states in the five membered ring puckering potential has been determined with considerable accuracy, at ΔE01 = 259 726.035(10) MHz or 8.663 5280(4) cm−1.
Result	In addition, rotationally resolved analysis of two hot bands near the reported origin band in the laser-induced fluorescence spectrum has been carried out and was found to rule out the current literature assignment of this spectrum.
Result	The new information has been used to reassign the lowest vibrational transitions in the far-infrared and the Raman spectrum of 1,3-benzodioxole in terms of a one dimensional potential with a central barrier of 108 cm−1, which successfully accounts for all states up to υ = 5, and for the observed variation in rotational constants.
Background	Considerable reassignment of the published spectra, as well as new experimental work is still necessary for a confident determination of the low-energy region of the molecular potential of 1,3-benzodioxole.
Background	Determination of the effects which are responsible for the preferred structural conformations of molecules is often less than straightforward.
Background	It is useful to keep in mind that the understanding of such a basic feature, as the staggered geometry of ethane, has come only recently,1 from a careful computational study showing that this geometry results from hyperconjugation and not from steric repulsion.
Background	In cases of molecules which have conformers of comparable energy separated by small energy barriers the situation is often much more complex.
Background	Even the geometry at the global minimum, and not only its origin may be uncertain.
Background	Several spectroscopic studies of 1,3-benzodioxole (BDO) have been carried out, and were devoted to elucidation of details of its large amplitude motion, which is a convolution of ring puckering, flapping and ring twisting.
Background	The molecule is shown in Fig. 1, where the parameters used to describe the ring puckering and flapping motions are also indicated.
Background	Earlier investigations led to conflicting conclusions.
Method	The results of a far infrared (FIR) investigation2 were interpreted in terms of planarity of the molecule, whereas a single vibronic level fluorescence (SVLF) study3 suggested that the molecule is non-planar, with the barrier to planarity attributed to a twisting motion at the oxygen atoms in positions 1 and 3.
Method	The pure rotational spectra of the ground state and of several, mainly ring puckering, vibrational satellites, also indicated unambiguously that the molecule is non-planar, but that the barrier to planarity is due to the puckering motion of the five membered ring.4
Background	The puckered conformation of BDO has been interpreted5–7 to originate from the anomeric effect, which is a stereoelectronic effect that involves the donation of electron density from a lone pair on one oxygen atom to the adjacent carbon-oxygen bond.
Background	Such interaction, believed to be the result of n–s* overlap, reaches its maximum value when the –C–O–C–O torsional angle is at 90° and is excluded in case of a planar ring.
Background	Since the puckering of the ring increases the magnitude of the anomeric effect, there can be a stabilization of a nonplanar structure.
Method	The studies reported in refs. 5–7 combined the analysis of far-infrared and Raman spectra with that of laser-induced fluorescence (LIF) from electronic transitions between the ground (S0) and the first excited electronic (S1) states.
Background	In ref. 6 a partial reassignment was made of the fundamental transition of the butterfly motion, with respect to refs. 2 and 4 while in ref. 7 the potential energy surface of the ring puckering and butterfly motions was determined for the first time in the S1 state.
Background	Following the experimental results, two theoretical studies confirmed the anomeric effect to be the main effect in determining the bent conformation of BDO in both S0 and S1 states.8,9
Method	We will use throughout the text the notation υp, υf and υt to label the vibrational states of ring-puckering, flapping (or butterfly) and twisting motions, respectively.
Method	In normal mode numbering the pertinent quantum numbers are υ39, υ38 and υ20, respectively.
Method	The electronic transitions will be labelled using the notation Nn1n0, where N labels the normal mode, n0 is the vibrational quantum number for this mode in S0, and n1 is the corresponding value in S1.
Method	Analysis using a 2D model comprising of ring-puckering and butterfly motions, was performed in refs. 6 and 7 although some unusually large discrepancies between the observed and the calculated transition frequencies were obtained.
Method	Since rotationally resolved techniques allow for unambiguous identification of vibrational states, some of us measured the rotationally resolved spectrum of several strong, mainly cold bands of the LIF spectrum of the S1 ← S0 (π* ← π) electronic transition of BDO.10
Background	It was found that, for S1, the rotational constants of state υp = 2 obtained from the 3920 and 3921 transitions as assigned in ref. 7, were incompatible with each other.
Background	A new assignment of the ring-puckering states in S1, needed to understand the molecular geometry and the anomeric effect, is still missing.
Background	In order to succeed in the reassignment, we need to be sure of the assignment in S0.
Problem	Since the υp = 1–0 (ΔE01) splitting has not been measured experimentally, but deduced from the centrifugal distortion effects,4 this was the primary target of additional measurements.
Problem	At the same time we searched for the rotationally resolved spectrum of the 3911 transition, measuring some weak hot bands close to the band at 34 783.53 cm−1, so far attributed to the origin.
Method	BDO (99% purity) was purchased from Aldrich, and was used without any further purification.
Method	The millimetre wave spectra were recorded in Warsaw, and the rovibronic spectra in Florence, as described below.
Method	We used the broadband millimetre wave spectrometer based on backward wave oscillator (BWO) sources, which has been described in ref. 11 and references cited therein.
Method	The spectrometer uses source modulation, and the frequency of the source is locked to the controlling 3 GHz synthesizer by means of two phase lock loops.
Method	The millimetre wave spectrum was recorded at frequencies from 170 to 279 GHz, by means of two different mm-wave sources.
Method	Measurements were made on a static sample kept at room-temperature and pressure of 20–50 mTorr, which was held in a 3 m long absorption cell of 10 cm diameter.
Method	The fluorescence excitation spectra were recorded using the experimental apparatus in Florence, described in detail elsewhere.12
Method	The sample was introduced directly into the molecular beam source and was heated to 50 °C, to reach a suitable concentration of BDO in the molecular beam, while the 50 μm-diameter nozzle was maintained at a slightly higher temperature (55 °C) to avoid condensation and clogging of the nozzle.
Method	The carrier gas was pure helium at a pressure of 6 × 105 Pa for the cold bands, and 8 × 104 Pa for the hot bands.
Method	The molecular beam was obtained by selecting the central part of the expansion with a 400 μm-diameter skimmer, placed at 10 mm from the nozzle.
Method	On passing through the skimmer the molecular beam entered a second, differentially pumped, chamber in which it could interact with the UV radiation and where the LIF signal was collected.
Method	The excitation source was a ring dye laser (Coherent 699-21) with Rhodamine 6G as lasing medium pumped by an argon ion laser.
Method	The ring laser was operating in single mode, and was actively frequency stabilized.
Method	To obtain the UV radiation the frequency of the ring laser was doubled using an external cavity (Wavetrain, LAS), and we obtained up to 20 mW of UV power, at the crossing point with the molecular beam.
Method	The UV linewidth was 3 MHz.
Method	The fluorescence radiation was collected by a system of two spherical mirrors and two lenses, and it was focused on the photocathode of a photomultiplier tube (EMI 9893Q/350).
Method	The photomultiplier tube signal was then sent to a photon counter (SRS 400).
Method	The frequency scan of the laser was monitored by a 150 MHz free spectral range étalon (to check the regularity of the scan and to control that the laser does not jump from the selected cavity mode), and by a wavelength-meter (Burleigh Wavemeter) to check the absolute calibration.
Method	The accuracy of the laser wavelength measurement is of 0.04 cm−1 in the UV.
Method	The data acquisition and the laser scan were controlled by a personal computer.
Background	Upon realising from measurement of bands displaced from 94 to 383 cm−1 from the origin band10 that the assignment of ref. 7 was in question, we considered it crucial to assign the 3911 transition, expected to lie close to the origin band.
Background	This would have supplied the ΔE01 splitting in S1, to compare with the value of ΔE01 in S0.
Result	We found, in the proximity of the origin at 34 785.53 cm−1, two candidate hot bands, one displaced by −14.5 cm−1, and a second one by +1.5 cm−1 (Fig. 2).
Result	The results of fitting the measured frequencies for these two bands, using a rigid rotor Hamiltonian and the program Jb95,13 are given in Table 1.
Result	The measured and the obs. − calc. frequencies are listed in supplementary Tables S1 and S2. The rotational constants of the lower states for the two new bands are compared in Table 2 with those for the lowest excited vibrational states of S0 known from the microwave investigation.4
Result	It can be seen that the B and C constants differ by close to ten times the experimental errors from the values in the S0υp = 1 state.
Result	Neither of the two new transitions appears to originate from that state, so none of these bands can be satisfactorily assigned to the 3911 transition on the basis of rotational constants.
Result	In addition assignment of the lower frequency band to 3911 would require a considerable difference between the ΔE01 values in S1 and S0, and a much larger ΔE01 spacing in the S0 state (by at least 15 cm−1) than the reported value of 8.1–8.3 cm−1.4
Result	On the other hand assignment of the +1.5 cm−1 band would require the 3921 band to be within about 8.2 + 1.5 = 9.7 cm−1 of the 3920 band, whereas candidate bands according to the assignment of ref. 7 and the measurements in ref. 10 are 7.53(11) cm−1 apart.
Result	If we compare the S0 rotational constants obtained from the two new bands with the values for the lowest lying vibrational satellites in S0 obtained from the pure rotational spectrum, we can see that they most closely match those of υp = 2 and of the combination state (υp = 2, υt = 1).
Result	A correspondence with υt = 1 also cannot be excluded.
Conclusion	For any of these to be the case the 000 band, the origin, would actually have to be at a considerably lower value, by ca. 300 cm−1, than the reported frequency.
Result	We have indeed seen some indications of the presence of very weak bands in that region.
Conclusion	The inconsistencies discussed above provide further evidence, in addition to that already reported in ref. 10 that the assignment of the ring puckering progression in S1, as given in ref. 7 is most probably incorrect.
Conclusion	It appears that the key 3911 band, and even the actual band origin are still to be identified.
Problem	Since the value ΔE01 = 8.4 cm−1 in the S0 state was not an experimental one, but was derived from experimental centrifugal distortion constants we made an attempt to measure it directly, with millimetre/submillimetre wave spectroscopy.
Background	The results are given in the following section.
Method	The measurements of the pure rotational spectrum in the ground, υp = 0, and in the first excited ring puckering state, υp = 1, were first extended to the millimetre wave region by using predictions based on the rotational constants of .ref. 4
Result	The spectrum is relatively weak, since BDO has a small dipole moment equal to 0.237(5) D and 0.222(4) D in the ground, and in the first excited state, respectively.4
Problem	The dipole moment is in the form of the μa dipole moment component, so that only a-type rotational transitions would be expected.
Problem	Since the asymmetry of the molecule is appreciable, with the asymmetry parameter κ = −0.643 for the ground state, the spectrum was expected to be devoid of many of the characteristic features that normally serve to aid the assignment.
Background	Nevertheless, as the molecule is close to planarity it gives rise to the type-II bandheads,14,15 which are characteristic of high-J transitions in such molecules.
Background	The bandheads are produced by specific overlaps of aR-type transitions with differing values of J and K−1, such that J decreases and K−1 increases by 1 away from the leading line in the band.
Result	Such bands were indeed observed for both states, as visible in the specimen spectrum reproduced in Fig. 3, and their measurement allowed for rapid expansion of the pure rotational data set.
Result	An attempt to fit such data demonstrated that it was no longer viable to carry out single state fits as was possible with the less extensive data sets of .ref. 4
Method	In the present case it was necessary to carry out simultaneous fits of data for υp = 0 and υp = 1, by taking account of the high order, Coriolis-type interaction connecting such states.
Method	We used the block diagonal Hamiltonian of the formH = ΔE01 + Hr(0) + Hr(1) + Hc(01),where Hr(0) and Hr(1) are single state Watson’s asymmetric rotor terms in representation Ir and reduction A.16
Method	The interstate coupling term Hc(01) has been expressed in the reduced axis system Hamiltonian suggested by Pickett17Hc(01) = (Fac + FacJP2 + FacKPa2)(PaPc + PcPa),which is equivalent to a second order Coriolis coupling term.
Result	The empirical centrifugal distortion expansion of the Fac coupling constant proved to be necessary for fitting vibration–rotation transitions.
Method	The measured frequencies were fitted using Pickett’s SPFIT program.18,19
Method	Pure rotational aR0,1-type transitions were measured for υp = 0 and υp = 1 states at frequencies up to 210 GHz, which are near the maximum of the rotational absorption profile, see Fig. 4.
Result	The values of rotational quantum numbers ranged up to J = 90 and K−1 = 40.
Result	The pure rotational data set by itself already allowed the ΔE01 vibrational energy level spacing to be determined to within several tens of MHz, at which point location of vibration–rotation transitions became feasible.
Problem	Since the dipole moment change induced by the puckering vibration will be perpendicular to the ring plane and along the c-inertial axis, the vibration–rotation transitions are expected to follow c-type selection rules.
Method	Their initial prediction was made by assuming that the associated vibrational dipole moment was at least comparable in magnitude to the permanent dipole moment.
Result	The calculated intensity profiles are shown in Fig. 4 and take the form of a considerably distorted P, Q, R structure.
Result	The compact Q branch at 260–270 GHz was thought to offer the best chance for observation, while the comparably intense R branch was outside the frequency range of the available spectrometer.
Result	The prediction proved to be sufficiently accurate to readily locate the Q-branch interstate transitions, which were indeed found to be considerably more intense than the pure rotational transitions, see Fig. 5.
Result	The vibrational transition moment proved to be sufficiently high to observe also the P-type interstate transitions, some of which are marked in Fig. 3.
Method	We assigned and measured a total of 181 υp = 1 ← 0 transitions and fitted them together with pure rotational transitions in υp = 0 and υp = 1 states, also using the SPFIT program.
Result	The resulting spectroscopic constants are reported in Table 3, and the measured transition frequencies and obs. − calc. differences are collected in Table S3 of the ESI. The vibrational spacing has been determined with a very high accuracy, ΔE01 = 259 726.035(10) MHz, that is 8.663 5280(4) cm−1.
Result	Part of the reason for this accuracy is the low level of intercorrelations affecting ΔE01.
Result	It is interesting to compare relatively small values of the ΔJK constants in Table 3 with 0.644(10) and −0.575(11) kHz determined, respectively for υp = 0 and υp = 1 states in single state fits.4
Result	This provides direct evidence for the level of effective centrifugal distortion contributions introduced by the inversion potential, which was the basis for the derivation of additional information on the potential carried out in ref. 4.
Background	For the first time, we have a precise experimental value for the ground state ring puckering splitting in S0, whereas in previous analyses4,6 this could only be determined indirectly.
Result	The present value of 8.663 5280(4) cm−1 is found to be intermediate between previous estimates.
Background	Two values, 8.1 and 8.31 cm−1 were determined from potentials fitted to observables from pure rotation spectra4 and far-infrared data of .ref. 2
Background	A value of 9.6 cm−1 was also inferred upon reinvestigation of the far-infrared spectrum,6 and was found to be consistent with the potential fitted therein to far-infrared, Raman, and fluorescence spectra.
Background	Until now assignment of transitions involving higher quanta was considered reliable, such as that of υp = 2 ← 0, for which values of 99.1 and 100 cm−1 were derived from far-infrared and dispersed fluorescence spectra,6 respectively.
Problem	In view of the uncertainty concerning the reliability of the assignment we decided to re-examine the available data by going back to the simple one-dimensional analysis.
Background	An isolated ring-puckering mode would be expected to be well described by a double minimum potential, as has been the case for 1,3-dioxole.20
Background	An economic form of such a potential, such as the reduced quartic–quadratic21V(z) = A(z4 + Bz2),is defined by only two parameters, and central barrier to planarity, V0, is simply given by AB2/4.
Background	Even in the presence also of other low-frequency normal modes this type of 1D-potential section should provide a sufficiently accurate description, at least in the energy region below excitation of other modes.
Problem	Since there is a consensus between theory and experiment that both the twisting and the flapping modes are well above 200 cm−1 in frequency4,6,10 there should be several puckering energy levels in the intermolecular potential below the first excited states of the twisting or flapping motions.
Problem	In addition the several operable (and for practical purposes mutually exclusive) selection rules, Δυp = 1,3 in the far-infrared, and Δυp = 2,4 in Raman20,22 are expected to generate quite a sizable number of observable transitions between only the several lowest vibrational states.
Method	We used the program ANHARM from the PROSPE web-site23 for these calculations, together with the new ΔE01 and vibrational frequencies from .ref. 6
Result	We decided to retrace the assignment from scratch and the results are collected in Table 4.
Result	For a double minimum potential the compression of the first two vibrational states by the presence of the central barrier at the planar configuration is accompanied by a somewhat smaller compression of the next higher pair of states, which leads to the second lowest vibrational frequency.
Result	It was immediately found that for the ab initio estimate V0 = 150(50) cm−1 for BDO9 the use of the current value of ΔE01 leaves only the 58.2 cm−1 line in the infrared spectrum as the only realistic candidate for υp = 3 ← 2.
Background	This is in fact the assignment of .ref. 6
Result	The use of these two lines to predict the υp = 2 ← 1 transition leads to a frequency of 76 cm−1.
Conclusion	The most probable assignment is therefore the nearest line to high frequency, at 79.5 cm−1, since there is no candidate to low frequency.
Result	In fact the 58.2 cm−1 line is rather broad and structured, so it is better to use 8.66 and 79.5 cm−1 transitions to define the potential, whereupon we immediately find that the 148.2 cm−1 line can be assigned to υp = 3 ← 0.
Result	The only other transition involving quanta up to υp = 3, namely υp = 3 ← 1 is indeed also found in a consistent position in the Raman spectrum, at 138.5 cm−1.
Result	We have thus satisfactorily assigned all transitions up to υp = 3, and we note that the agreement for υp= 3 ← 2 would be improved if the mean frequency of its broad profile and not the low frequency peak were used.
Result	Nevertheless assignment of transitions involving the υp = 4 level meets difficulties, while there are plausible candidates for transitions to the υp = 5 level, but not involving υp = 4.
Result	We note that the calculated energy of 231 cm−1 for υp = 4 is close to the estimated positions υt = 1 and of υf =.14,9
Background	There could therefore be several mechanisms by which the position of this level could be perturbed.
Method	If we assume a small 6 cm−1 upward shift in the position of υp = 4 then it becomes possible to assign five more vibrational transitions, as seen in Table 4.
Result	It is noted that all of the assigned transitions are consistent with those with the selection rule Δυp = 1,3 being observable in the infrared, and those for Δυp = 2,4 being observable in Raman, and that relative intensities are in fair agreement with the calculated ones.
Problem	A further test of the derived 1D potential was carried out by checking its ability to reproduce a second reliable piece of experimental data namely changes of rotational constants and inertial planar moments with υp measured in .ref. 4
Method	For this purpose we used a different form of the double minimum potentialV(τ) = V0[1 − (τ/τe)2]2,where V0 is the barrier to inversion and τe is the equilibrium value of the inversion angle (see Fig. 1).
Method	This potential was augmented with a flexible model, available for one and two-dimensional motions,24,25 and the molecular framework was constructed by using the parameters listed in .ref. 4
Method	Vibrational energies in Table 4 were reproduced with V0 = 108.5(11) cm−1, τe = 22.50(6)° and the changes in rotational constants and second moments of inertia required two additional adjustable parameters describing the variation in the CCO valence angle α with puckering excitationα(τ) = α0 + Δα(τ/τe)2.The results of this calculation are compared with experimental values in Table 5.
Result	It should be noted that observation of the zigzag behaviour in rotational constants in the range υp = 1–3 is indicative straightaway that these levels are in the vicinity of the central barrier.
Result	In the derived 1D potential υp = 0 and 1 are 50 and 41 cm−1 below the barrier, respectively, while υp = 2 is 38 cm−1 above the barrier.
Result	Reproduction of the planar moments and rotational constants as documented in Table 5 is seen to be excellent.
Result	The A rotational constant is a possible exception, but its behaviour is known to be the most difficult to reproduce, since it is associated with the smallest moment of inertia.
Result	The barrier of 108 cm−1 corresponding to the present 1D assignment is somewhat lower than analogous 1D values of 124 cm−1 (ref. 4) and 128 cm−1.6
Result	It is also lower than barrier heights of 126 cm−1,4 and 164 cm−1,5 derived on application of a more sophisticated two-dimensional model.
Background	We have, in fact, also sought a 2D model solution that would encompass the 1D solution described above.
Result	We have found that the density of lines in the spectra is such that if the criterion for reproducing frequencies is reduced to, say, 3 cm−1, and the relative intensity criteria are also relaxed, then it is not possible to achieve a unique fit.
Result	The number of parameters in the 2D-fit and their flexibility is such that they are able to equally successfully encompass many radically different assignments of transitions.
Conclusion	A confident assignment of the υf = 1 ← 0 transition would be the minimum requirement for an attempt at a more reliable analysis with that model.
Conclusion	On the other hand observation of the υp = 2 ← 0 transition in the Raman spectrum near 88 cm−1 would be enough to confirm the present 1D analysis.
Background	The present work has delivered several new, precise pieces of information pertaining to the molecular dependence of the chemically relevant anomeric effect.
Conclusion	Augmentation of the available lower resolution data by information from rotationally resolved spectroscopy revealed considerable deficiencies in previously published spectral analysis, suggesting that a considerable re-assignment of the ring puckering transitions in 1,3-benzodioxole is required for both the S0 and the S1 states.
Conclusion	The origin of the S1 ← S0 electronic transition almost certainly has to be re-assigned, it is expected to lie at a lower frequency than that reported in refs. 3 and 5–7 and further work on this problem is in progress in the Florence laboratory.
Conclusion	It is now clear that, while there is little doubt that the puckering barrier in 1,3-benzodioxole is considerably lower than the value of 275 cm−1 in 1,3-dioxole,20 its precise elucidation is proving rather difficult, as evidenced by the number of previous reports devoted to this problem.
Conclusion	While a full 2D analysis of the dynamics of the five-membered ring would be more appropriate, it is mandatory to first reach a confident assignment of several more states, in particular those with υf > 0.
Conclusion	On the other hand the success of the 1D analysis suggests that near the minimum of the potential the dynamics is dominated by the puckering.
Result	It is also worth noting how close the actual value of ΔE01 = 8.663 5280(4) cm−1 turned out to be to the value of 8.31 cm−1 calculated on previous application of the 1D model to all data from pure rotational spectroscopy4.

Problem	Regular Liesegang patterns and precipitation waves in an open system
Problem	We investigate the regular and moving Liesegang pattern formation phenomena in an open system.
Problem	First, simulations have been performed at fixed coupling between the reactive medium and the reservoir, later this control parameter was varied during the simulations resulting in various phenomena.
Conclusion	We predicted and monitored for the first time various—dynamically changing—precipitation structures and a spatial hysteresis phenomenon, which is beyond the scope of the Turing instability.
Conclusion	The dynamics of the reaction is well detectable using specific quantities: the total amount of precipitate and its center of gravity.
Background	Detailed investigations of homogeneous chemical systems showed that phenomena like bistability, complex and chaotic oscillations may exist only in open chemical systems, far from thermodynamic equilibrium.1,2,3
Background	The appropriate experiments are carried out using a continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR).
Background	In 1952, Turing predicted that the diffusion of species may destabilize a homogeneous chemical system producing stationary patterns in a spontaneous way.4,5
Background	The pioneering work of De Kepper and his coworkers provided for the first time an experimental evidence for the formation of Turing patterns.6
Background	Up to the last decade, a wide range of spatial or spatiotemporal reaction–diffusion patterns (such as complex Turing patterns, phase waves, autocatalytic chemical fronts, etc). have been designed and investigated also in open systems. 7,8
Background	Formation of the precipitation patterns in the wake of diffusion driven chemical fronts has been extensively studied from the end of the 1800’s.9,10
Result	This is the first chemically designed and controlled spatiotemporal pattern formation.
Background	Although the generation of such patterns (called Liesegang patterns) is quite easy, the research on this topic still has a great relevance.
Method	In the typical experimental setup, one chemical reagent is uniformly distributed in a gelled medium (called inner electrolyte, B), while the other one (called outer electrolyte, A) diffuses from outside.
Method	The initial concentration of A is chosen to be much larger than that of B. This condition ensures the higher diffusion flux of the outer electrolyte into the gel.
Background	The coupling of the diffusion and the precipitation reaction between the two chemical components produces a non-soluble precipitate (AB) in the reaction front.
Background	The distribution of the precipitate is usually non-uniform behind this front.
Background	Appearing precipitation zones (Liesegang bands or rings, depending on the geometry of the experimental setup)11–19 have several empirical regularities (time, 20,21 spacing,22 and width law23–25), in which some well-measurable quantities are connected with each other.
Background	These are Xn, the position of the nth band, measured from the junction point of the electrolytes, tn the appearance time, and wn, the width of the nth band, respectively.
Background	The Matalon–Packter law describes the dependence of the spacing coefficient (P = Xn+1/Xn) on the initial concentration of the inner and outer electrolytes.26–28
Background	Recently, a new and more general law has been proposed, which also includes advective dynamics in the reactive medium.29
Background	For this, two new quantities are introduced: ptot, the total amount of precipitate and Xc, the position of the center of gravity of precipitation system measured from the junction point of the electrolytes.
Background	Besides the theoretical derivation, experimental and numerical evidences confirmed the new law, which states that ptot is linearly proportional to Xc.29
Background	From the beginning of the last decade, more and more complex precipitation pattern formation scenarios have been studied and discussed.30,31,34–36
Background	Several authors reported that the precipitation process followed by complex formation of precipitate may produce moving Liesegang patterns (“moving” bands)34–36 or moving precipitation pulse (precipitation waves).12,30–33
Background	In several papers, deterministic chaotic time oscillation of the total number of bands,35,37 effect of an electric field on pattern structure,12,38 and crossover from the precipitation waves to moving Liesegang patterns39 have been investigated.
Background	These are the recent trends in the study of the precipitation pattern formation phenomena.
Method	Das et al. presented the Liesegang pattern formation in 2D using a gel-ring reactor, in which the two electrolyte solutions were fed from reservoirs13: The outer electrolyte was fed continuously from the center, while the inner one from a gel ring outside the reaction medium.
Background	Several years ago Bhattacharya et al. proposed a model, which included a single autocatalytic reaction step followed by nucleation and growth.40
Background	Based on the fact that a cubic autocatalytic step coupling with CSTR may give rise to Turing patterns,41 they demonstrated formation of spatially periodic precipitation patterns.40
Background	In classical experimental setup, the diffusion front of the outer (invading) electrolyte depletes the inner electrolyte from the reactive medium due to the precipitation reaction.
Problem	The aim of this paper is to provide for the first time a systematic investigation of the regular and moving Liesegang pattern formation in an open system, where a continuous feeding of the inner electrolyte is allowed.
Method	To illustrate our idea, we have chosen the simplest precipitation mechanism (1 : 1 type, AB), giving rise to precipitation patterns, according to the reactionA(aq) + B(aq) → AB(s),where A and B yield the outer and inner electrolytes, respectively, while AB is the precipitation product.
Method	In addition, the precipitate reacts with the excess of the outer electrolyte, producing a soluble complexAB(s) + A(aq) → A2B(aq).For simplicity, we supposed that the formed complex A2B is stable, so the reverse step was neglected.
Method	Due to the irreversible step the stable complex does not affect dynamically the pattern formation.
Method	Therefore, it was supposed that neither the complex nor the precipitate diffuses.
Method	A sketch of our system appears in Fig. 1 where for a clear visual interpretation we provide a 2-D description.
Method	In fact, the thickness of the reactive medium is negligible and therefore, the reaction is described using only horizontal coordinates.
Method	The dimensionless governing equations for the reactive medium, coupled with a well-mixed reservoir for the inner electrolyte (open system) in 1-D arewith τ and x being the time and length coordinates, respectively.
Method	Here a, b, c, and p denote the concentrations (or even density for solid phase) of the outer and inner electrolyte, the complex, and the precipitate, respectively.
Method	Da and Db are the diffusion coefficients of the corresponding species, while b0 is the concentration of the inner electrolyte in the reservoir (CSTR).
Method	k is the reaction rate constant for the complex formation (eqn (2)).
Method	κ is related to the coupling between the reactive medium and CSTR, which maintains a continuous mass flux of the inner electrolyte.
Method	κ is the inverse of the residence time of species in the reactor, which can be accurately controlled by the flow rate.
Method	The function Δ(ab, K, L) (will be specified later on) describes the precipitate formation based on Ostwald’s supersaturation theory.
Method	Despite its simplicity and generality this concept provides a perspicuous mechanism in many cases, where the precipitation process plays a partial role.
Problem	The efficiency of the above mentioned precipitation mechanism was tested by simulating the effect of an electric field,42,43 stochastic precipitation pattern formation,44 and also moving Liesegang bands and precipitation waves.37
Method	The term kpa in eqns (3), (5) and (6) represents the complex formation rate, whereas κ(b0 − b) in eqn (4) describes the coupling between the reactive medium and the reservoir.
Method	However, it should be noted that the immobilization of the complex is not a necessary condition for the moving pattern formation.
Method	To describe the precipitation formation presented by the simple mechanism (1) we choose the model proposed by Büki et al.,45,46 which is based on the Ostwald’s ion-product supersaturation theory.47
Method	The precipitation reaction term Δ(ab,K,L) is defined as follows: where k0 is the rate constant of the precipitation reaction (1), K is the nucleation product, L is the solubility product, and Θ is the Heaviside step function.
Method	The coefficient Sp is related to the extent of the supersaturation of the system and influences the intensity of the reaction.
Method	Formally, Sp is calculated using the equation (a − Sp) (b − Sp) = L. As far as ab ≤ L we do not need to define it, since the precipitation reaction term in (7) is zero, anyway.45,46
Method	The precipitation reaction continues at a certain point x until the concentration p in x has reached a threshold pmax.
Method	Numerical simulations were performed using a “method of lines” technique.
Method	Discretization of eqns (3)–(6) was carried out on a 1-D equidistant grid applying a second-order finite difference scheme.
Method	In this procedure, at any fixed time the functions a,b,c and p in (3)–(6) are substituted with vectors [a(τ, x1), a(τ, x2),…,a(τ, xn)] and similarly for b, c and p, respectively, where x1,x2,…,xn are the grid points.
Method	The spatial differential operator turns to be a matrix of dimension n × n and with this, (3)–(6) can be approximated by a system of ordinary differential equations (of size n) with respect to time.
Method	This has been solved using a second-order Runge–Kutta method with the following initial conditions:a(0,x) = a0Θ(−x), b(0,x) = b0Θ(x), p(0,x) = c(0,x) =0.The boundary condition is no flux type both for the inner and the outer electrolyte at the end of the reactive medium.
Method	It is Dirichlet type a(t,0) = a0 for the outer electrolyte at the junction point of the electrolytes.
Method	Although both κ and b0 could be used as control parameters of the system, b0 was fixed in the simulations.
Method	This concentration has been chosen to coincide that of the initial concentration of B in the reactive medium.
Method	The presented model allows to describe the crossover from Liesegang patterns to precipitation waves using only one parameter: in case of k = 0 regular Liesegang pattern formation, and for k ≠ 0 moving patterns are expected.
Method	In all simulations, we used the parameter set Da = Db = 1.0, K = 0.15, L =0.1, k0 = 1.0, and pmax = 50.0.
Method	The grid spacing was Δx = 1.0, and the numerical simulations were performed with the time step Δτ = 0.01.
Problem	First, the dependence of pattern structure on the coupling coefficient (κ) has been investigated in the case of regular Liesegang patterns (k = 0), and precipitation wave (k = 10−3).
Method	Obviously, if κ = 0 (there is no coupling between the reactive medium and reservoir), then regular Liesegang pattern and precipitation wave evolve, and the final pattern will depend on the particular parameter set.
Method	If κ ≫ 0, a single precipitation zone develops, starting from the junction point of the electrolytes instead of the (regular or moving) Liesegang patterns, due to the high flux of the inner electrolyte from the reservoir.
Method	This extremely high coupling reduces and slightly modifies the purely diffusive profile of the invading (outer) electrolyte A. This intensive coupling ensures that the product of the local concentrations is kept above the nucleation product (K), therefore, the precipitate is formed continuously.
Result	Fig. 2a,b shows the final pattern structure for fixed values of κ.
Result	Results of the numerical experiments are in good agreement with the above explanation.
Result	In the case of the precipitation waves, increasing κ results in a thicker precipitation zone, the final position of which is getting more and more close to the junction point.
Result	Increasing κ promotes the precipitation reaction, thus reduced concentration of the outer electrolyte puts back the complex formation.
Problem	In contrast to the case of precipitation waves, we predict regular Liesegang patterns for small values of κ, and a single precipitation zone for relatively high values of the control parameter.
Background	The time law for the regular Liesegang patterns (even for 1-D or planar ones) states that the position of each band is linearly proportional to the square root of its formation time.
Background	This is a consequence of the diffusive dynamics of the invading electrolyte.
Background	In several cases, modification of the dynamics (including the presence of external electric field, advection field, curvature effect) results in some deviations compared to the time law.20
Result	Fig. 3a presents the evolution of the pattern for various values of κ.
Result	Relatively high coupling hampers the depletion of B, therefore, the more intensive precipitate formation reduces the concentration of A in the reactive medium, which leads to the slower evolution of the pattern.
Result	Similarly, the center of gravity of the precipitation system (Xc) exhibits slower motion in time as depicted in Fig. 3b.
Method	The total amount of the precipitate ptot and the center of gravity of the precipitation system Xc are defined as follows:where L is the length of the 1-D reactive medium.
Result	At the same time, the enhanced reaction rate increases the total amount of precipitate (ptot), the evolution of which has been plotted in Fig. 3c.
Result	Note that increasing the coupling coefficient affects more significantly ptot than Xc.
Result	In this way increasing κ, dependence of ptot on Xc exhibits an accelerating growing rate (Fig. 3d).
Result	In the regular 1-D case, in all of the subfigures of Fig. 3 one can observe a linear dependence.
Result	Moreover, this linear dependence in Fig. 3d is also valid in the case of an additional advective flux in the system29.
Method	Up to this time, the control parameter (κ) was fixed at certain values during the numerical experiments.
Problem	Now we will focus on the behavior of the system with the coupling rate between the reactive medium and reservoir being varied on a continuous scale: various time dependences of κ have been applied.
Result	Accordingly, variation of the total amount of the precipitate (ptot) and the center of gravity of the precipitation system (Xc) is depicted in Fig. 4 as a function of log κ.
Result	The change of log κ was linear on [nT, (n + 1)T] with integer values of n.
Result	We give the exact time dependence of log κ as follows:which allows to illustrate clearly its effect on the distribution of the precipitate, where T is the time period of one cycle.
Method	All simulations were started at κ = 10−9, which corresponds to a very weak coupling.
Method	Increasing κ results in an increased amount of the precipitate due to the enhanced mass-flux of the inner electrolyte from the reservoir into the reactive medium.
Result	The maximum of ptot is attained at the maximal rate of the coupling (κ = 1 in the simulations).
Result	Similarly, ptot is decreasing when the coupling coefficient κ is decreased (Fig. 4a).
Result	One can observe a slightly different behavior of the center of gravity with varying κ.
Result	The position Xc is an increasing function of κ up to a certain coupling coefficient, afterwards, Xc is decreasing (Fig. 4b).
Result	Decreasing κ from the maximum to its minimum value, Xc monotonically increases.
Result	At the first stage, when the coupling is weak, a precipitation wave travels in the reactive medium.
Conclusion	In the case of higher coupling, the precipitate formation behind the pattern will dominate compared to the precipitate dissolution by complex formation.
Conclusion	At the same time, the precipitate formation is stopped in front of the pattern, because the coupling and precipitation reaction behind it reduces the concentration of the invading electrolyte.
Conclusion	Therefore, Xc is shifted backward, however, the total amount of precipitate increases continuously.
Result	The complex formation of the precipitate has a more significant role behind the pattern, when the coupling rate is decreased.
Result	The same applies to ptot, while Xc increases.
Conclusion	At weak coupling, the precipitation process continues in front of the precipitation wave and the wave evolves further.
Result	The most interesting scenario observed during the simulations is the hysteresis of the pattern.
Result	Accordingly, one can observe the hysteresis of the quantities ptot and Xc related to the pattern.
Result	The time oscillation of ptot is a trivial consequence of the variation of κ in time, but the hysteresis is a unique feature.
Result	Note that similar hysteresis curves (with different maxima) belong to different time dependent functions of κ.
Conclusion	Hysteresis occurs due to the interaction of the reaction rate (for the precipitation and complex formation), diffusion of the electrolytes, and the coupling rate.
Conclusion	When increasing κ, the dominant process is the precipitate formation behind the pattern due to the high coupling, which reduces the diffusion of the invading electrolyte.
Conclusion	When decreasing κ, the precipitate formation process diminishes behind the pattern, and the evolution of the pattern will be driven by complex formation.
Conclusion	This process may be accompanied with the precipitate formation in front of the pattern, if the diffusion profiles of the outer electrolyte are regenerated.
Method	In the simulations, we varied κ periodically over some periods (Fig. 5).
Result	We observed that the values of ptot corresponding to the maximal and minimal values of κ have been increased, compared to those of the first period.
Result	An interesting feature (using a given parameter set) of the observed system is that after the first loop, a periodic change of κ results in the periodic change of total amount of the precipitate.
Result	Analyzing the evolution of Xc while varying the time dependent κ in the same way, a similar behavior of the center of gravity has been found.
Result	Fig. 6 presents the evolution of the precipitation wave over four periods.
Result	Position of the front and back section of the wave and the center of gravity exhibit a forced time oscillation according to the change of κ.
Result	Time dependence of the back section of the wave has different dynamics whenever the variation of log κ (in time) was linear, while decreasing or increasing this control parameter.
Result	Note that the thickness of the precipitation zone is related to the total amount of the precipitate, therefore both of them exhibit the same behavior.
Problem	In this study, we have investigated the regular and moving precipitation pattern formation in an open system using a CSTR for the coupling of the inner electrolyte between the reactive medium and reservoir.
Problem	Evolution of patterns in both cases, and the distortion of the existing laws (time and “universal” laws) due to the coupling coefficient have been investigated.
Result	The coupling of the inner electrolyte between the CSTR and the reactive medium has a great impact on the pattern structure.
Conclusion	Variation of the coupling coefficient (κ) during the individual simulations resulted in a unique behavior for the moving precipitation wave phenomenon: the pattern structure and the corresponding characterizing quantities, the total amount of the precipitate (ptot) and the center of gravity (Xc) have hysteresis.
Conclusion	This new result is a unique observation on this research field.
Conclusion	Compared to the Turing patterns which are stationary ones, the above investigated moving precipitation wave phenomenon in an open system represents dynamic patterns.
Background	The spatial hysteresis of the Turing patterns has been known for more than one decade.
Conclusion	The novel result of our study is that we observed the hysteresis phenomenon in a precipitation system, which qualitatively differs from activator–inhibitor or cubic autocatalytic systems, where Turing patterns have been reported.
Conclusion	The coming step in our study is to design the experimental setup to validate our new predictions.

Problem	Viscoelastic and small angle neutron scattering studies of concentrated protein solutions
Problem	Small angle neutron scattering (SANS) and rheological measurements have been used to study horse heart cytochrome C, a globular protein characterized by approximately spherical shape (a × b × b = 15 × 17 × 17 Å3) with a molecular weight of 12 384 Da and a pI = 10.2.
Problem	Two series of very concentrated protein solutions have been investigated at pD 5.4 and 11.0, respectively, the volume fraction of the protein spanning from 0.1 to 0.5.
Method	The Krieger–Dougherty model was applied to describe the relation between relative high shear viscosity of the solution and volume fraction of the protein at both pD in order to elucidate the charge effect on the interaction potential.
Result	The SANS intensity distributions at pD 5.4 were fitted using the GOCM model with an excellent agreement between the theory and experiments up to the volume fraction ϕ of 0.4.
Conclusion	At pD 11.0 the intensity distribution at ϕ = 0.1 can be fitted with a pure form factor (oblate ellipsoid), suggesting that under this condition the cytochrome C molecules are almost uncharged and preserve the native molecular size.
Result	Addition of salt induces the transformation from liquid to a gel.
Conclusion	This is a result of formation of ordered fractal clusters internally as evident from appearance of a second interaction peak at very low Q (magnitude of the scattering vector).
Result	The appearance of the low Q peak is also accompanied by a strong increase in the relative viscosity.
Conclusion	These phenomena taken together can be considered as the signature of the gelation process.
Background	Proteins play a critical role in almost all biological processes, and the understanding of the physical basis of their mutual interactions is a key to this understanding.
Background	In order to develop a model that describes the interactions among biological macro-ions leading to a general theory of liquid-crystal transition, it is essential to have a clear picture of the forces acting among proteins in solution.1,2
Background	Surface charge and inter-particle interactions of globular proteins can be easily modulated by varying pH, salt concentration and temperature.
Background	Protein solutions are stable when Coulombic repulsions dominate the attractive interactions.
Background	At the isoelectric point, pI, the number of positively charged groups equals the number of negatively charged ones and the protein solubility drastically drops with formation of amorphous precipitates.3–5
Background	In order to overcome this inconvenience some repulsive contributions at the interactions potential have to be preserved.
Background	This is typically obtained by using a pH far from the isoelectric point and adding a salt whose counter-ions partially screen the charges on the proteins.
Background	The optimal crystallization conditions are strongly linked with a salt concentration able to reduce the range of electrostatic repulsions at distances where the attractive forces are effective (i.e. the Debye length is shorter than macro-ion diameter).
Background	A very intriguing effect is the so-called ‘Hofmeister anion effect’:6 in fact different salts at the same ionic strength produce different effects on the weak balance between attractive and repulsive forces.
Background	The complexity of this phenomenon is evident: protein concentration, temperature, pH, ionic strength and nature of the added salt and kinetic aspects have to be taken into account when trying to obtain good protein crystals.
Background	The easiest way to relate easily measurable solution properties with crystallization conditions is to assimilate proteins to colloidal particles hence using their well-known models.
Background	George and Wilson7 studied under-saturated lysozyme solutions in crystallization condition.
Method	They employed the static light scattering to determine the sign and magnitude of the virial coefficient, B, thus characterizing concretely the net interaction.
Background	In all cases, negative values of B were obtained.
Background	Muschol and Rosenberger extended previous studies to lysozyme solutions in conditions of over-saturation8–10 confirming that the virial coefficient, B, must be negative in order to have optimal crystallization conditions.
Background	Both these approaches were based on the DLVO11,12 description of the intermolecular interactions.
Method	Furthermore, Piazza et al13,14. and Rosenbaum et al15. modeled protein solutions as adhesive hard sphere (AHS) systems in which the interaction potential is made up of a repulsive core plus a short range attractive tail.
Background	Lysozyme and cytochrome C are excellent model systems since their shape is globular and very close to a sphere.
Background	Due to the strong absorbance at 410 nm the cytochrome C cannot be studied by light scattering as usually happens with lysozyme.
Background	However, cytochrome C solution properties are accessible by using small angle neutron and X-ray scattering techniques (SANS, SAXS), even though the information obtained by these latter techniques cover a smaller length scale range.
Background	Wu et al. adopted another effective approach to the problem of protein interactions.
Method	They performed SANS and SAXS experiments on cytochrome C in aqueous solutions up to volume fractions ϕ of about 0..1816,17
Method	They analyzed the SANS and SAXS data using the generalized one-component macro-ion (GOCM) theory,17 an extension of the well-known one-component macro-ion model (OCM),18 which is applicable at high volume fractions.
Background	Using this model, they extracted some protein parameters at different pD values: the hydrated diameter, the amount of hydration, the degree of H/D exchange with the solvent and the renormalized charge.
Background	Besides, they compared the renormalized charge obtained through the fitting procedure with the charge measured by conventional titration experiments and found good agreement at intermediate pD values, i.e. at pD = 6..816
Background	However, at extreme pD values (i.e. 2.9 and 11.9) they obtained the renormalized charge significantly lower than the titration charge and attributed this discrepancy to the so-called charge renormalization phenomenon.17
Background	Microscopically, this can be explained as the result of a piling up of counter-ions near the protein surface, the analogue of the charge condensation phenomenon in rod-like particles such as DNA.
Background	Thus, as far as the protein–protein interactions are concerned, counter-ions behave like a part of the protein itself.
Background	Regardless of the charge renormalization phenomenon, the essential point of their work is that they were able to relate the results of scattering experiments to the thermodynamic properties of the protein solutions.
Problem	In this paper we extended previous studies16,17 to the investigation of concentrated cytochrome C solutions.
Problem	Two limiting cases were taken into account: a series at pD 5.4 exhibiting long-range repulsion and a very weak attractive interaction and a series at pD 11.0 where the short-range attractions are more prominent.
Background	Horse heart cytochrome C is a globular protein consisting of 104 amino acids, 12 negatively charged (Glu, Asp) and 21 positively charged (Lys, Arg) and characterized by a pI = 10.2.
Background	Its molecular weight is 12 384 Da and its shape in aqueous solutions is approximately spherical (a × b × b = 15 × 17 × 17 Å3).
Method	In this study we tune, to some extent, the intermolecular interactions by changing protein concentration, pD and adding two salts differing in the anions.
Method	SANS and rheological measurements have been performed on solutions with volume fraction ranging from 0.1 to 0.5 at two different pD (5.4 and 11.0) values.
Background	The details of samples composition and preparation are described in the next section.
Method	Cytochrome C from horse heart (product no.
Method	C7752) was purchased from Sigma Chemical Company.
Background	This product is obtained using a procedure that avoids trichloroacetic acid (TCA), which is known to promote the dimer formation in favor of the native protein.
Method	Two sets of five cytochrome C samples in D2O at different pD, 5.4 and 11.0, were prepared for SANS and rheological measurements; both of them contain protein volume fraction, ϕ, ranging from 0.1 to 0.5.
Method	A list of the sample composition is reported in Table 1.
Method	Samples at pD 5.4 were obtained just dissolving cytochrome C in D2O; those ones at pD 11.0 were prepared adding different volumes of 2 N NaOH/D2O solution.
Method	NaN3 at a concentration of 0.2 mg ml−1 was added to all samples in order to avoid bacterial growth.16
Method	The ionic strength, I*, has been calculated considering only the NaOH contribution in the case of pD = 11.0.
Method	All the samples were prepared few days before the experiment was performed in order to allow H–D exchange.
Method	The same samples have been used for both rheological and SANS measurements.
Method	Rheological measurements were carried out with a stress-controlled rheometer, Paar Physica Universal Dynamic Spectrometer UDS 200.
Method	The experiments have been performed with a ‘cone-plate’ geometry designed for handling small quantities of sample.
Method	To limit the amount of protein needed for the measurement, the cone had a radius 12.5 mm and was placed at 0.05 mm from the plate resulting in a theoretical shear stress range from 0.122 Pa to 36 669 Pa.
Method	We performed flow curves varying the shear stress and measuring the shear rate; the viscosity of each point is automatically calculated as the ratio between the preset shear stress and the measured shear rate.
Method	All measurements were carried out at a temperature of 20.0 ± 0.1 °C which was regulated by a controlled peltier system (TEZ 150P) coupled with a Haake circulating bath.
Method	The measurements were carried out by imposing a shear stress ranges from 0.22 to 2 Pa or 0.2–15 Pa or 0.2–130 Pa according to the sample viscosity.
Method	Neutron measurements were performed at the NG-7 SANS instrument at the NIST Center for Neutron Research (Gaithersburg, MD) using incident monochromatic neutrons of wavelength λ = 5 Å with Δλ/λ = 10%.
Method	The sample to detector distance was fixed at 2.5 m, covering the magnitude of scattering vector, Q, from 0.0125 to 0.32 Å−1.
Method	The detector was a 65 × 65 cm23He position-sensitive proportional counter having a 5 × 5 mm2 resolution.
Method	The neutron beam on the sample was 1.6 cm in size and circular in shape.
Background	The instrumental resolution was taken into account in the model but its effect was negligible since the experimental spectra do not present sharp peaks.
Method	Standard (UV) quartz micro-cylindrical cells having a path length equal to 1 mm were used for low viscosity samples.
Method	High viscosity samples (ϕ = 0.4 and 0.5) were contained in titanium demountable cells having two flat quartz windows and being 1 mm in path length.
Result	Since the transmission of samples spanned from 90% (for the 0.1 of protein in volume fraction) to about 80% (for the 0.5 of protein in volume fraction) the multiple-scattering effect was not taken into account.
Method	The measured intensity was corrected for background and empty cell contributions, and for non-uniformities in the detector efficiency by dividing data, pixel-by-pixel, by the measured scattering from an isotropic scatterer, such as plexiglass.
Method	The data have been rescaled to the absolute intensity by a direct measuring of the beam flux at the sample.
Method	The I(Q) versusQ data were obtained by a circular average of the so-obtained two-dimensional absolute intensity detector image.
Method	The overall data reduction was carried out according to the standard NIST procedures.19
Method	All the neutron scattering experiments have been performed at T = 20.0 ± 0.1 °C and no condensation of water was present on the quartz cell windows.
Problem	Rheological properties of concentrated cytochrome C solutions have been monitored using steady-state viscosity measurements.
Result	Viscosity curves are reported in Figs. 1 and 2 and show the trend of viscosity as a function of the shear rate for all investigated samples.
Method	All measurements were performed controlling the shear stress, so that the shear rate range depends on the sample viscosity.
Result	Initial experimental values are 1 s−1 in all cases except for the solutions with ϕ = 0.5 at pD 11.0 and at pD 5.4 where the shear rates start from about 0.05 s−1 and 0.5 s−1, respectively.
Background	Rheological behavior of charged colloidal particles has been intensively studied in the case of diluted solutions and three main electroviscous effects have been found.20
Method	The so-called “primary electroviscous effect” is due to the interactions of the diffuse double layer around each particle; the “secondary electroviscous effect” can be explained in terms of balance of electrostatic repulsive force and hydrodynamic compressive force on each particle; the “tertiary electroviscous effect” is influenced by the particle shape.
Method	A solution of strongly interacting colloidal particles at high volume fractions and low electrolyte concentrations orders into crystalline lattices at rest.
Method	If shear is applied, the flow concentrates stress above all at lattice dislocations where particles are loosely trapped.
Method	Under flow, the solution's microstructure can be modeled as a ‘blend’ made up of a solid ordered phase coexisting with a fluid disordered phase and when shear rate increases the disordered phase rises above the ordered one.
Background	How exactly these phases are organized is still unclear.21
Method	The rheological behavior of the solutions we investigated is consistent with this model: the shear leads to a destruction of the ordered structure and the so-called shear-thinning behavior is observed (i.e. the shear viscosity decreases as shear rate increases).
Background	Usually, pseudo-plastic solutions have a flow curve characterized by three regions with the shear-thinning zone surrounded by two Newtonian plateaus at the edges of the shear rate range.22,23
Background	Sometimes the low shear Newtonian regions can lie outside the shear rate range accessible to the instrument as in the cases reported in this paper.24
Result	Unfortunately, due to instrumental limits, the first Newtonian plateau is experimentally detected only for the sample having ϕ = 0.5 at pD 11.0 since our ‘cone-plate’ geometry has the intrinsic instrumental lower limit in the shear stress of 0.122 Pa.
Result	As expected, the high-shear viscosity exploits a strong concentration dependence increasing with volume fraction and reaching the maximum value in the case of ϕ = 0.5 at pD = 11.0.
Method	In order to quantitatively describe the flow curves the Sisko approach has been used (eqn. (1)).
Method	This relatively simple model25,26 is useful to describe a shear-thinning behavior in presence of the high shear plateau only: η = η∞ + Kn−1where K is the consistency index, n is the flow behavior index and η∞ is the limit viscosity at infinite shear rate.
Method	The parameter K gives an indication of the non-Newtonian nature of the sample and can be assimilated to the yield stress in a Bingham-type fluid.
Method	When K = 0 or n = 1, the model describes a simple Newtonian fluid.
Result	The results obtained from the fitting of the experimental data and using the Sisko model are reported in Fig. 3a and the related parameters are listed in Table 2.
Result	Only the low concentration cases (ϕ = 0.1 and 0.2) can be reasonably fitted.
Result	The K value turns out to be about 0.2 for all low volume fraction samples, while n gradually decreases, increasing ϕ consistently with a “less Newtonian behavior”.
Result	The viscosity curve relative to the sample ϕ = 0.4 at pD 11.0 almost resembles a Newtonian behavior in the shear rate range we investigated, whereas the sample ϕ = 0.5 at pD 11.0 behaves more like a pseudo-plastic fluid and two Newtonian regions are detected.
Method	This last sample has been fitted using the Cross model23,25 (Fig. 3b): where η0 and η∞ are the zero shear and the infinite shear viscosities, 4.56 and 1.78 Pa.s, respectively.
Result	In the same volume fraction case at pD 5.4 the curve exploits a Newtonian behavior with a viscosity equal to 0.35 Pa.s.
Method	The viscosity trend of samples at high volume fraction can be rationalized in terms of electrostatic charge on the molecules and their aggregation behavior.
Method	Electrostatic interactions influence the rheological behavior of solutions: in high concentrated solutions electrostatic interactions overcome Brownian interactions and order occurs, and obviously the electrostatic interactions experienced by the particles depend on their superficial charge.
Result	Generally, in charged systems the viscosity increases with the effective surface charge,27 but this is not our case.
Background	At pD 5.4, molecules have a great positive charge (pI = 10.2) and consequently experience higher electrostatic repulsions with respect to pD = 11.0 where the charge is almost zero, but shear viscosities relative to pD 11.0 are higher than those at pD 5.4.
Method	This means that another effect contributes to the rheological behavior of the investigated systems, i.e. the aggregation phenomenon is surely favored at pD 11.0 due to the attractive surface of the low charged protein; moreover, this effect enhances with concentration.
Result	Fig. 4 shows the relative limiting high-shear viscosity, ηrel = η/η0, as a function of ϕ both for pD 5.4 and pD 11.0.
Background	Rheological behavior of the system can give some insight into the interaction between particles.
Background	Furthermore, the strength of the interactions can be estimated varying shear rate conditions.
Background	In particular, if an appropriate model can represent the data, the evaluation may be more convenient and effective.
Background	Several models have been developed that can be applied to describe the relation between relative viscosity of the samples and volume fraction of the particles in the system.28
Method	One of the well-known correlations is the Krieger–Dougherty model: where the parameters to be fitted [η] and ϕmax are the intrinsic viscosity and the volume fraction corresponding to the maximum packing, respectively, while η0 is the solvent viscosity.
Result	Table 3 reports [η] and ϕmax at the limit shear-rate and 100 s−1.
Result	The maximum packing fraction and the intrinsic viscosity appears to be almost shear-rate independent, increasing shear rate the particles packing is already defined by the repulsive or attractive interaction.
Result	At lower shear rates the model is not applicable since all the viscosity curves collapse.
Result	The behavior of the concentrated solution changes from a liquid-like to a solid-like as the volume fraction approaches the maximum packing fraction.
Background	Different values have been reported in the literature for the maximum packing fraction of suspensions of monodisperse particles.
Result	These results indicate that the maximum packing fraction may change significantly with purity, shape, relative monodispersity of the particles, and the level of accuracy of experiments.
Background	Even different models may predict different values for the maximum packing fraction of the same system.
Background	As a reference it is worth to repeat that a system constituted of perfect spheres has an intrinsic viscosity value equal to 2.5 and this value strongly depends on the shape of molecules.25
Result	The calculated values of [η] for cytochrome C concentrated solutions using Krieger–Dougherty model gives much larger values than 2.5.
Problem	It is known that the intrinsic viscosity of suspensions is affected by the shape and surface roughness of the particles and, since in our system the protein molecules are not exactly spherical, we believe that this may be a reason for the high value of the intrinsic viscosity of the samples.
Problem	Additionally, the polydispersity of the samples as well as the aggregation may also be responsible for the high intrinsic viscosity.
Background	In particular, the deviations from the spherical symmetry cause an increase in magnitude [η] that usually ranges from 2.5 (spheres) to 10 (plates).
Result	So the obtained values of 5.0 and 5.9, for pD 5.4 and 11.0 respectively, are a reasonable consequence of the ellipsoidal native shape of the cytochrome C mixed with the high complexity of the investigated solutions that involves some sort of aggregation to give more asymmetric structures especially in the case of higher pD confirming that the aggregation is favored by the low surface charge.
Result	Anyway, our sample seems to behave like titanium dioxide suspensions which have [η] = 5.0 and ϕmax = 0..5529
Result	Moreover, ϕmax values found for the cytochrome C are very similar to those relative to the system of PMMA particles28 that have been defined as a quasi-hard sphere system.
Result	If we compare the ϕmax values at the two different pD we observe that system at higher pD values is characterized by higher ϕmax values.
Conclusion	In particular, the electrostatic interactions become less effective while shear rate increases, so we can conclude that in the high shear rate region excluded volume effects are more effective than electrostatic ones in causing maximum packing values.
Result	We anticipate here that addition of salts belonging to the Hofmeister series produces a consistent increase in the intrinsic viscosity with a concomitant appearing of two peaks in the small angle neutron scattering spectra (see below and Fig. 11).
Background	We will discuss exhaustively this finding in a forthcoming paper but we can anticipate this is the signature of protein gelation induced by co-ions addition to cytochrome C.
Problem	In order to have a deeper insight into the structure, SANS measurements were carried out on all samples.
Result	The spectra are showed in Figs. 5 and 6.
Result	The main characteristic of these spectra is the maximum in the scattering intensity distribution.
Background	Chen et al16,17. reported similar results, obtained by experiments on cytochrome C in aqueous solutions within a range of volume fractions from 0.05 to 0.18.
Background	The presence of a very pronounced interaction peak in the scattering intensity distribution is indicative of local order around macro-ions due to their electrostatic repulsions.
Result	In our case, it is evident that at pD 11.0 the peak appears at volume fractions greater than 0.3, that means molecules start interacting at a closer distance.
Result	This can be easily explained in term of lower charge on molecules and consequently lower electrostatic potential experienced since pD 11.0 is very close to the isoelectric point pI = 10.2 and the protein charge very close to zero.
Result	Another interesting feature is the concentration dependence of the peak position, Qmax as expected.
Result	It moves to higher Q values when the volume fraction increases.
Background	The peak position can be used to deduce the molecular packing in solutions through a phenomenological approach already used by Chen et al. in the case of lithium dodecyl sulfate micellar solutions30 since it is associated with the reciprocal mean inter-particle distance.
Method	If we assume a face center cubic (fcc) like structure we can calculate the mean intermolecular distance, d, from the protein concentration using the formula: where NA is Avogadro's number and [c] is the protein molar concentration.
Background	The fcc packing has been chosen in agreement with previous work.30
Method	This spatial disposition allows all the charged macro-ions to be at the same distance to their first neighbors, while the simple cubic ordering forces some macro-ion to stay closer than others.
Result	It is worthy to note that the two dimensional SANS images did not show any diffraction peak in agreement with a globally disordered sample.
Result	In Fig. 7 we report Qmaxd as a function of d; the values we used are listed in Table 4.
Result	The linear trends obtained are respectively: Qmaxd = 8.434 – 0.0334d at pD = 5.4Qmaxd = 16.975 – 0.2869d at pD = 11.0They are in agreement with previous literature results and confirm the hypothesis that the increased volume fraction generates a high packing structure, following in this case an fcc disposition.
Result	It must be underlined that these two curves cross at about 33 Å, which is the protein diameter.
Background	It is essential to point out that this phenomenological approach is not accurate and only qualitatively describes the packing process induced by the increase in volume fraction since the interaction peaks coming from the spectra are not Bragg peaks.
Method	In order to fit the experimental data quantitatively we used the following equation: I(Q) = ApP(Q)S(Q)where Ap is the amplitude factor.
Method	In the case of a globular protein cytochrome C, it is given by: 10−3[p]NA[bpa + Nex(bD − bH)χ + mbsolv − VHbsolv/vω]2where NA is Avogadro's number, [p] the protein concentration in mM, bpa = ∑p bi = 258.5164 × 10−12 cm the total scattering length of the protein, Nex the number of labile protons that the protein can exchange with the solvent, bH and bD are respectively the scattering length of the hydrogen and deuterium, m is the number of solvent molecules in the hydration shell, VH is the hydrated protein volume, vω = 30 Å3 is the volume of a water molecule, bsolv is the solvent scattering length calculated each time according to the sample composition using the formula bsolv = χbD2O + (1 − χ)bH2O where χ is the volume fraction of D2O in the solvent and bD2O and bH2O are respectively the D2O and H2O scattering length.
Background	All these parameters are known, in particular the amount of H/D exchange of the protein in D2O heavy water-containing solvents and the hydration have been experimentally obtained through contrast variation measurements:16Nex = 165 and m = 112.
Result	The P(Q) is the normalized form factor for a core-shell oblate ellipsoid (a × b × b) having the axis ratio, a/b = 0.88235, in agreement with previously published results16 and assuming the presence of an hydration shell coming from the adsorption of water molecules at the protein surface.
Method	The protein structure factor, S(Q), has been determined according to the generalized one-component macro-ion model (GOCM) already tested.30
Method	As said above the GOCM extends the OCM based on DLVO interaction, which is valid only in dilute solutions, to finite macro-ion concentrations.
Method	A protein solution is described as made up of charged macro-ions experiencing screened Coulomb interaction.
Problem	In order to calculate the scattering length densities we assumed that a protein in solution to be consisted of a uniform core surrounded by (about 20% of the protein) a hydrated outer shell.
Background	Hence the parameters free to change are the major core axis b, the charge, the background and the volume fraction.
Result	In the case of pD = 5.4 the described model works well with the experimental spectra up to a volume fraction of 0.4.
Result	At greater volume fractions the model fails in the determination of the protein charge, Z.
Result	In particular, we obtained a mean value of the major axis of 16.0 ± 1.5 Å with a core major axis of 14.0 ± 1.5 Å and the protein charge is about 4.5 ± 0.5 (Table 5) for all volume fractions with the exception of ϕ = 0.5 where the consistently high value of 10.5 is obtained.
Conclusion	This could be due to the fact that a short-range attractive interaction becomes important when the protein molecules are forced to partially overlap.
Conclusion	This extra contribution is not taken into account by the electrostatic potential that describes S(Q) (see Fig. 5 and Table 5 and in particular note that the peak at ϕ = 0.5 is by far sharper than the other lower volume fraction cases, 0.1–0.4).
Result	The theoretical protein charge value calculated through the pKa values of protein residues31 is about 8.9 and is higher than the one we reported (see Table 7).
Background	In order to explain such a result, we must invoke the so-called charge renormalization phenomenon.17
Method	The protein charge reported in the tables is an interaction charge and not the actual charge on the protein surface.
Method	The interaction charge is the charge really experienced by protein and it is the surface charge due to the ionization of external residues reduced by the counter ions that adsorb at interface and are part of the protein itself.
Result	Concerning samples at pD 5.4 we calculated the structure and form factor using the GOCM model and Figs. 8 and 9 show the trend of S(Q) and P(Q), respectively.
Result	We can note that going from ϕ = 0.1 to 0.5 the first interaction peak moves at higher Q values and its intensity increases.
Result	Besides, S(Q → 0) reduces on raising the protein concentration.
Result	In the case of pD 11.0 the experimental scattering curve relative to ϕ = 0.1 was fitted using only the ellipsoidal form factor (see Fig. 6b and Table 6).
Result	The protein at pD 11.0 and ϕ = 0.1 presents a negligible inter-particle interactions.
Result	Unfortunately, the only form factor approach and the GOCM model fail to describe volume fractions higher than 0.1.
Conclusion	At this pD, the protein charge is low and some other effects, different from the electrostatic one, dominate the intermolecular potential and are not considered in the description.
Background	A new theoretical framework is under development in order to account the short-range attraction potential and will be the subject of a forthcoming paper.
Result	As at this pD we were unable to extract the S(Q) through GOCM, we estimated an “experimental structure factor” S′(Q), obtained by dividing the scattering intensity distribution, I(Q), by the form factor, P(Q), obtained from the fitting of data at ϕ = 0.1 (see Fig. 6b).
Result	These experimental structure factors are shown in Fig. 10.
Result	They look qualitatively different from the structure factors at pD = 5.4 shown in Fig. 8.
Method	SANS experiments were also performed on protein solutions with volume fractions 0.3, 0.4 and 0.5 at pD = 11.0, in the presence of NaCl and NaSCN in a range of concentrations from 0.1 M to 2.8 M. In some of these samples we detected the presence of a second interaction peak at small Q values.
Result	As an example, Fig. 11 shows the SANS spectra taken at the protein volume fraction 0.4 with the presence of NaCl and NaSCN at concentrations 1.9 and 1.2 M, respectively.
Conclusion	The presence of the second peak is clearly due to a protein cluster formation favored by the screening of the protein charge and the appearance of an attractive force induced by salt, and can be considered as the signature of the gelation process.
Result	Fig. 11 emphasizes clear evidence that both the position and magnitude of the “cluster related” peak are affected by both the concentration and the nature of the salt anion.
Result	In particular, a lower concentration of NaSCN causes a stronger cluster formation (the peak position in Q at 0.05 Å−1 instead of 0.1 Å−1 in the presence of NaCl, along with a higher amplitude of the peak.
Method	The stronger NaSCN effect can be related to the well-known Hofmeister effect.6
Background	A quantitative description of the gelation process is in progress and will be reported in a forthcoming paper.
Problem	In this paper we studied the pD and concentration effect on the intermolecular interactions among cytochrome C molecules using small angle neutron scattering and rheological experiments.
Conclusion	The concentration effect is quite obvious: increasing the number of molecules per unit volume, the protein macro-ions are forced to stay closer generating a stronger interaction potential.
Conclusion	This is confirmed both by the position of the interaction peak in the SANS intensity distribution and by the increase in viscosity of the sample.
Background	It is well known that the surface charge on proteins and consequently their mutual interactions depend on the H+ concentration in solution.
Problem	Two pD values were chosen in such a way that a strongly positive charged situation was compared with a weakly negatively charged one, both with the protein in the native state.
Result	The SANS spectra at pD = 5.4 were fitted using the GOCM and a good agreement between the theory and experiments up to a volume fraction of 0.4 was shown.
Result	At pD = 11.0, the spectrum at ϕ = 0.1 is a pure form factor (oblate ellipsoid).
Result	We found that at pD = 5.4 and for volume fraction of 0.5 and for all volume fractions at pD = 11.0 the GOCM fails.
Conclusion	This is probably due to the presence of some attractive contribution in the interaction potential that the GOCM does not take into account.
Result	This part of the potential becomes effective at high concentration of charged molecules (ϕ = 0.5 and pD = 5.4) and for volume fractions higher than 0.1 in the case of uncharged molecules (pD = 11.0).
Conclusion	The main consequence of this attractive interaction is the occurrence of an aggregation phenomenon also confirmed through rheological measurements.
Conclusion	Viscosity values at pD = 11.0 are higher than those at pD 5.4 in contrast with the usual findings that the higher the surface charge the higher the viscosity.
Conclusion	So the trend of high shear viscosity as function of concentration and pD as well as the maximum packing values can be rationalized only by invoking an attractive interaction among proteins that overcomes the standard coulombic repulsion.
Result	The behavior of high concentrate protein solutions in the presence of salt belonging to the Hofmeister series is reported.
Result	Addition of salt induces the transformation from liquid to a gel.
Conclusion	This is a result of formation of ordered fractal clusters as is evident from appearance of a second interaction peak at very low Q (magnitude of the scattering vector).
Conclusion	The appearance of the low Q peak that is also accompanied by a strong increase in the relative viscosity can be considered as the signature of the gelation process.

Problem	Synthetic analogue approach for the functional domains of copper(ii) bleomycins and its DNA cleavage activity
Result	The dicopper(ii) complex [Cu2(R′SSR)2(SO4)2] (1), where R′SSR is a Schiff base, has been prepared from the reaction of CuSO4·5H2O with the Schiff base N,N′-1,1′-dithiobis(ethylenesalicylaldimine) (H2RSSR) and structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography.
Result	The crystal structure of 1 shows two {Cu(R′SSR)}2+ units linked by two sulfate ligands each showing a η3,μ2-binding mode.
Result	The Cu⋯Cu distance is 4.562(2) Å with each copper having a square pyramidal (4 + 1) CuNO4 coordination geometry.
Conclusion	The monoanionic Schiff base R′SSR has a pendant cationic amine –SCH2CH2NH3+ group which is presumably formed from the hydrolysis of one imine bond of H2RSSR.
Background	Complex 1 models the N- and C-terminus domains of bleomycins.
Result	The metal centers in 1 are essentially magnetically non-interacting giving a −2J value of 3 cm−1 with the singlet as the ground state.
Problem	Using complex 1 as a precursor, ternary copper(ii) complexes [Cu(R′SSR)B(SO4)] (2–4) are prepared, characterized and their DNA binding and cleavage properties studied (B: kanamycin A, 2; 2,2′-bipyridine, 3; 1,10-phenanthroline, 4).
Result	IR spectral data suggest a square pyramidal (4 + 1) geometry for the one-electron paramagnetic ternary complexes with the sulfate bound to copper.
Result	The complexes are non-conducting in DMF but show conductivity in aqueous medium due to dissociation of the sulfate ligand.
Result	They bind to calf thymus DNA in the minor groove giving the relative order: 4 > 2 > 1 ∼ 3 (Kapp = 5.4 × 105 M−1 for 4).
Result	The precursor complex 1 does not show any apparent chemical nuclease activity when treated with supercoiled (SC) DNA in the presence of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA).
Result	The kanamycin A and phen adducts as such or generated under in situ reaction conditions using 1 and the ligand display efficient chemical nuclease activity in the presence of MPA, while the bpy species shows poor cleavage activity.
Conclusion	The ternary kanamycin A complex presents the first synthetic model for three functional domains of bleomycins.
Background	Bleomycins (BLMs) are the glycopeptide antitumor antibiotics that cleave DNA in an oxidative manner and are clinically used for the treatment of squamous cell and malignant lymphomas.1–3
Background	Bleomycins, in the presence of ferrous ion and molecular oxygen, cause sequence-selective DNA strand scission.
Background	The structure of bleomycins consists of three major domains playing different functional roles (Scheme 1).
Background	The N-terminus domain has binding sites for the metal, viz. iron or copper.
Background	Binding of molecular oxygen to the metal occurs in this domain.
Background	The C-terminus domain with a bithiazole unit and a cationic terminal amine moiety show DNA binding affinity and sequence selectivity.
Background	The carbohydrate domain facilitates cell permeability of BLMs and oxygen binding.
Background	Since activation of bleomycins requires a metal ion cofactor such as Fe2+ (or Cu2+ in the presence of dithiothreitol as reductant), the coordination chemistry of low molecular weight transition metal complexes as synthetic models assume paramount importance for gaining better insights into different structural and functional aspects of BLMs.
Background	BLM–DNA interactions have been studied using various analogues/conjugates to probe specific roles played by each domain.1–6
Background	In comparison, synthetic model iron or copper complexes are few and they do not model all the domains of the elephantine structure of BLMs.7–11
Background	The structural and chemical complexities associated with BLMs have been addressed by Mascharak and co-workers in a series of papers on synthetic model iron and copper complexes.7,8
Background	The complexes generally model the metal binding N-terminus domain.
Background	Hertzberg and Dervan have reported a model iron complex with a proposed structure that mimics the N- and C-terminus domains.9
Background	They suggested that methidiumpropyl-EDTA in presence of Fe2+ forms an iron–EDTA complex with a pendant cationic DNA binding site and the complex cleaves DNA in an oxidative manner.
Result	Using a similar synthetic analogue approach, we are successful in forming ternary copper(ii) complexes containing carbohydrate or heterocyclic base (B) using a precursor copper(ii) complex [Cu2(R′SSR)2(SO4)2] (1) that has a pendant arm with a cationic amine moiety.
Result	Complex 1 has been structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography.
Background	Our proposed kanamycin A bound ternary copper(ii) complex12 is unique in modeling three functional domains of BLMs (Scheme 1).
Result	The significant result of this study is the observation of efficient DNA cleavage activity of the kanamycin A complex in the presence of mercaptopropionic acid (MPA).
Problem	Ternary copper(ii) complexes [Cu(R′SSR)B(SO4)] (2–4) are prepared for the DNA binding and cleavage studies from the reaction of 1 with kanamycin A or heterocyclic bases such as 2,2′-bipyridine (bpy) and 1,10-phenanthroline (phen) (B: kanamycin A, 2; bpy, 3; phen, 4).
Problem	Our choice of 1 as a precursor is based on its novel structural features showing the presence of a cationic DNA-binder arm making it a potential synthetic model for the N- and C-terminus domains of BLMs.
Problem	Herein we report the synthesis, structure and DNA cleavage properties of 1–4.
Method	All reagents and chemicals were procured from commercial sources and used without further purifications.
Method	Solvents used were purified by standard procedures.13
Method	Calf thymus (CT) DNA and supercoiled (SC) pUC19 DNA (caesium chloride purified) were purchased from Bangalore Genie (India).
Method	Agarose (molecular biology grade) and ethidium bromide (EB) were from Sigma (USA).
Method	The disulfide Schiff base ligand (H2RSSR) was prepared by a literature procedure using cysteamine hydrochloride (Lancaster, UK) and salicylaldehyde (Aldrich, USA)14.
Method	The elemental analyses were done using a Thermo Finnigan Flash EA 1112 CHNSO analyser.
Method	The IR, electronic, and fluorescence spectral data were obtained from Bruker Equinox 55, Hitachi U-3400, and Perkin Elmer LS-50B spectrometers, respectively.
Method	Conductivity measurements were made using Control Dynamics Conductivity Meter.
Method	Electrochemical measurements were done at 25 °C on an EG & G PAR model 253 Versa Stat potentiostat/galvanostat with electrochemical analysis software 270 for cyclic voltammetric work using a three-electrode setup consisting of a glassy carbon working, platinum wire auxiliary and saturated calomel reference electrode.
Method	Variable temperature magnetic susceptibility data in the temperature range 18–300 K were obtained for polycrystalline samples using a George Associates Inc. Lewis-coil-force magnetometer system (Berkeley, CA) equipped with a closed-cycle cryostat (Air Products) and a Cahn balance.
Method	Hg[Co(NCS)4] was used as a standard.
Method	Experimental susceptibility data were corrected for diamagnetic contributions and temperature independent paramagnetism.
Method	The corrected molar magnetic susceptibilities for the dicopper(ii) complex were theoretically fitted by the modified Bleaney–Bowers expression based on the isotropic form of the Heisenberg–Dirac–van Vleck (HDvV) model giving H = −2JS1S2, where S1 = S2 = ½.15,16
Method	The susceptibility equation used for fitting was: χCu = [Ng2β2/kT][3 + exp(−2J/kT)]−1(1 − ρ) + (Ng12β2/4kT)ρ + Nα, where ρ is the fraction of monomeric impurity.
Method	The precursor complex 1 was prepared as a green crystalline solid in ∼55% yield (220 mg) from the reaction of CuSO4·5H2O (0.25 g, 1.0 mmol) with the Schiff base N,N′-1,1′-dithiobis(ethylenesalicylaldimine) (H2RSSR, 0.36 g, 1.0 mmol) in CH2Cl2–MeOH (12 cm3, 9 ∶ 1 v/v) at 25 °C for 1 h magnetic stirring in dark under nitrogen atmosphere.
Method	The product, obtained on slow concentration of the solution, was washed with methanol and finally dried in vacuum over P4O10 (Found: C, 31.8; H, 3.7; N, 6.9, C22H32Cu2N4O10S6 (1) requires C, 31.7; H, 3.9; N, 6.7%).
Method	Conductivity (ΛM/Ω−1 cm2 mol−1) in H2O = .39017
Method	UV-vis in H2O [λmax/nm (ε/dm3 mol−1 cm−1)]: 631 (90), 321 (3850), 269 (8250), 237 (12300), 218 (14200).
Method	IR (KBr phase, cm−1): 2930w, 1632s, 1542m, 1475m, 1452m, 1402w, 1349w, 1315w, 1200s, 1144vs, 1130vs, 1115vs, 1052w, 1000m, 936m, 912w, 760m, 656w, 620m, 586w, 486w, 456w (vs, very strong; s, strong; m, medium; w, weak).
Method	μeff per Cu = 2.0 at 300, 1.9 μB at 18 K [theoretical fit: −2J = 3 cm−1, g = 2.18, g1 = 2.2, ρ = 0.004].
Method	The ternary copper(ii) kanamycin A adduct was prepared from reaction of 1 (1.0 mmol, 0.83 g) with kanamycin A (2.0 mmol, 1.16 g) in water (20 cm3) at 25 °C on magnetic stirring for 12 h.
Method	The solution was filtered and the filtrate on slow concentration gave brownish-green solid which was isolated, washed with aqueous methanol (1 ∶ 1 v/v) and dried in vacuum over P4O10 giving ∼62% (0.55 g) yield (Found: C, 39.1; H, 3.9; N, 9.5, C29H37 CuN6O16S3 (2) requires C, 39.3; H, 4.2; N, 9.5%).
Method	Conductivity (ΛM/Ω−1 cm2 mol−1) in DMF–H2O (1 ∶ 4 v/v) = 145.
Method	UV-vis in DMF [λmax/nm (ε/dm3 mol−1 cm−1)]: 630 (175), 369 (1090), 310 (3970).
Method	IR (KBr phase, cm−1): 3337br, 3054w, 1622s, 1538m, 1465m, 1450m, 1400m, 1345w, 1315m, 1282w, 1205m, 1145vs, 1109vs, 1000m, 939m, 906w, 756m, 613s, 483w, 453w (br, broad).
Method	Complexes 3 and 4 were prepared by following a general procedure in which the heterocyclic base (2.0 mmol: 0.31 g bpy or 0.4 g phen) was reacted with an aqueous solution (20 cm3) of 1 (1.0 mmol, 0.83 g).
Method	The solution was magnetically stirred for 5 h at 25 °C.
Method	The solution was filtered.
Method	The product as a green solid was isolated on slow concentration of the filtrate on a rotary evaporator.
Method	The solid was washed with aqueous ethanol (1 ∶ 1 v/v) and dried in vacuum over P4O10 (Yield: 74%, 0.42 g for 3; 68%, 0.4 g for 4).
Method	Characterization data for 3: Found: C, 44.3; H, 4.0; N, 9.6, C21H24CuN4O5S3 requires C, 44.1; H, 4.2; N, 9.8%.
Method	Conductivity (ΛM/Ω−1 cm2 mol−1) in DMF–H2O (1 ∶ 4 v/v) = 140.
Method	UV-vis in DMF [λmax/nm (ε/dm3 mol−1 cm−1)]: 611 (150), 371 (830), 274 (2300).
Method	IR (KBr phase, cm−1): 3700br, 3037w, 1618s, 1595m, 1565w, 1532m, 1470m, 1442s, 1320m, 1242w, 1116vs, 1022m, 980w, 906w, 769s, 730m, 660w, 620s, 470w, 456w.
Method	Characterization data for 4: Found: C, 46.2; H, 3.7; N, 9.5, C23H24N4CuO5S3 requires C, 46.3; H, 4.0; N, 9.4%.
Method	Conductivity (ΛM/Ω−1 cm2 mol−1) in DMF–H2O (1 ∶ 4 v/v) = 135.
Method	UV-vis in DMF [λmax/nm (ε/dm3 mol−1 cm−1)]: 666 (105), 372 (1820), 318 (1350), 268 (3260).
Method	IR (KBr phase, cm−1): 3740br, 3050w, 1621s, 1541m, 1515m, 1473m, 1450m, 1424m, 1348m, 1330w, 1147vs, 1103vs, 1040w, 987w, 912w, 855s, 760m, 722s, 616s.
Method	C22H32Cu2N4O10S6, Mr = 831.96, green rectangular (0.50 × 0.32 × 0.28 mm), monoclinic, space group P21/c, a = 12.771(7), b = 15.664(9), c = 8.544(5) Å, β = 105.971(9)°, U = 1643.2(16) Å3, Z = 2, Dc = 1.682 g cm−3, μ = 1.732 mm−1, min./max.
Method	transmission = 0.48/0.64, 2θmax = 50°, λ(Mo-Kα) = 0.71073 Å, T = 293(2) K.
Method	Crystals of 1 were obtained from the mother-liquor on slow concentration.
Method	Intensity data were measured in frames with increasing ω (width of 0.3° frame−1, scan speed of 12 s frame−1) on a Bruker SMART APEX CCD diffractometer.
Method	The data were corrected for absorption18.
Method	The structure was solved and refined with SHELX system of programs.19
Method	The non-hydrogen atoms were refined anisotropically.
Method	The hydrogen atoms were located from the difference Fourier maps and were refined isotropically.
Method	The final full-matrix least-squares refinement converged to R1 = 0.0506, wR2 = 0.1162 for 2895 reflections with I > 2σ(I) and 263 parameters [R1 (all data) = 0.0652; wR2 = 0.1229 (all data)], weighting scheme: w = 1/[σ2(Fo2) + (0.063P)2 + 0.7566P], where P = [Fo2 + 2Fc2]/3.
Method	The goodness-of-fit and the largest difference peak are 1.142 and 0.625, respectively.
Method	The perspective view of the complex was obtained using ORTEP.20
Method	CCDC reference number 236447.
Method	See http://www.rsc.org/suppdata/dt/b4/b414639e/ for crystallographic data in CIF or other electronic format.
Result	The concentration of the calf thymus DNA (125 µM) was obtained from its absorption intensity at 260 nm with a known ε value of 6600 dm3 mol−1 cm−1.21
Problem	The binding of the complexes 1–4 to calf thymus (CT) DNA has been studied by fluorescence spectral method using the emission intensity of ethidium bromide (EB).
Result	The apparent binding constant (Kapp) value for the phen complex was estimated from the equation: KEB[EB] = Kapp[complex] using the Kapp value of EB as 107 M−1.22
Problem	The DNA cleavage activity of the complexes was studied by agarose gel electrophoresis.
Method	Supercoiled pUC19 DNA (0.8 µl, ∼500 ng) in Tris-HCl buffer (50 mM, pH 7.2) containing NaCl (50 mM) was treated with the complex taken in DMF in the presence or absence of additives.
Method	The oxidative DNA cleavage by the complex was studied in the presence of 3-mercaptopropionic acid (MPA) as a reducing agent.
Method	The sample was incubated for 1 h at 37 °C, added loading buffer (25% bromophenol blue, 0.25% xylene cyanol, 30% glycerol (3 µl)) and loaded on 0.8% agarose gel containing 1.0 µg ml−1 EB.
Method	Electrophoresis was carried out at 40 V for 2.0 h in Tris-acetate EDTA (TAE) buffer.
Method	Bands were visualized by UV light and photographed.
Method	The cleavage efficiency was measured by determining the ability of the complex in relaxing the SC DNA to its nicked circular (NC) form.
Method	The proportion of DNA in the SC and NC form after electrophoresis was estimated quantitatively from the intensities of the bands using UVITEC Gel Documentation System with due correction of the low level of NC present in the original sample and the low affinity of EB binding to SC compared to NC and linear forms of DNA.23
Method	Control experiments were carried out in the dark to detect any hydrolytic cleavage of DNA.
Method	Religation experiments were carried out to exclude the possibility of hydrolytic cleavage.
Method	In these experiments, the NC DNA, obtained from the hydrolytic cleavage reaction, was recovered from the agarose gel using a gel extraction kit and this was followed by addition of 5X ligation buffer and T4 DNA ligase (1 µl, 4 units).
Method	The solution was incubated for 10 h at 16 °C prior to gel electrophoresis.24
Method	In the inhibition reactions, the additive such as distamycin or DMSO was added initially to the SC DNA and incubation was done for 15 min at 37 °C prior to the addition of the complex and MPA.25
Problem	Considering the good solubility of 1 in water, the DNA binding and cleavage reactions of the adducts 2–4 were studied under in situ conditions in which complex 1 was treated with the ligand (B) in a Tris buffer medium.
Method	Ternary copper(ii) complexes [Cu(R′SSR)B(SO4)] (2–4) are prepared by reacting the dimeric precursor [Cu2(R′SSR)2(SO4)2] (1) with kanamycin A or a heterocyclic base such as 2,2′-bipyridine (bpy) and 1,10-phenanthroline (phen) (B: kanamycin A, 2; bpy, 3; phen, 4) (Scheme 2).
Method	Our choice of 1 as a precursor is based on its novel structural features showing the presence of a cationic amine pendant arm which is expected to show good DNA binding ability.
Method	Complex 1 is prepared from a reaction of CuSO4·5H2O with the Schiff base N,N′-1,1′-dithiobis(ethylenesalicylaldimine) (H2RSSR) (Scheme 2).
Method	The complexes 1–4 are characterized by analytical and spectral methods.
Method	Complex 1 is structurally characterized by X-ray crystallography.
Result	The crystal structure of 1 shows the dimeric nature of the complex in which two {Cu(R′SSR)}2+ units are bridged by two sulfates (Fig. 1).
Result	The Cu⋯Cu distance is 4.562(2) Å and each copper atom has a square pyramidal (4 + 1) CuNO4 coordination geometry with the sulfate atom O(2) as the axial ligand.
Conclusion	The pendant –SCH2CH2NH3+ group is presumably formed from the hydrolysis of one imine bond of H2RSSR.
Result	The disulfide moiety does not show any apparent interaction with the metal atoms.
Result	The phenolato oxygen atom O(1), the terminal amine group and the uncoordinated oxygen atom O(5) of the sulfate are involved in hydrogen bonding interactions in the solid state.
Result	Selected bond parameters for 1 are given in Table 1.
Problem	We have probed the formation of the ternary complexes in solution by electronic spectral and cyclic voltammetric studies.
Result	The conductivity value of 1 in H2O suggests the formation of two monomeric units in solution.17
Result	The two near UV bands at 360 and 320 nm for a solution of 1 in water disappear on addition of the ligand and a new band is observed at 380 nm for kanamycin A and 389 nm for phen (Fig. 2).
Result	Cyclic voltammetric experiments show a cathodic peak for 1 at −0.62 V with an anodic counterpart at −0.04 V vs. SCE at 50 mV s−1 in H2O–0.1 M KCl.
Result	Addition of kanamycin A to 1 causes a shift of the cathodic peak to −1.04 V with a reduced current and no corresponding anodic response.
Result	The voltammetric responses of the ternary species are significantly different from those of CuSO4 in the presence or absence of kanamycin A. The ternary structure of complexes are found to be stable in water even on addition of ten-fold excess quantity of kanamycin A or heterocyclic base (bpy, phen).
Result	Although the formation of bis(phen)copper(ii) species is a possibility from the reaction of 1 with excess phen, the cyclic voltammetric measurements rule out any such complex formation as the voltammetric response is not characteristic of this binary complex.26
Result	The one-electron paramagnetic (μeff ∼ 1.8 μB) complexes 2–4 are non-electrolytic in DMF but show 1 ∶ 1 electrolytic behavior in aqueous DMF (4 ∶ 1 v/v).
Result	Complex 1 shows three IR bands for the sulfate which displays a η3,μ2-binding mode to the metal centers.
Result	We have also observed two well resolved IR bands for the sulfate ligand in 2 and 4 indicating its bonding to the metal atom.
Conclusion	We propose that the sulfate binding could be at the elongated axial site considering its labile nature in aqueous medium.
Result	The complexes display a visible band in the spectral range 611–666 nm.
Result	This band is assignable to the d–d transition.
Result	While complex 1 shows good solubility both in water and DMF, complexes 2–4 are soluble in DMF.
Result	Variable temperature magnetic susceptibility data in the range 18–300 K show the essentially paramagnetic nature of the metal atoms in 1.
Conclusion	The theoretical fit of the data shows a −2J value of 3 cm−1 indicating the non-interacting nature of the spins in the absence of any superexchange pathway(s) involving the sulfate ligands.
Problem	The propensity of binding of 1–4 to calf thymus (CT) DNA has been studied by fluorescence spectral method using the emission intensity of ethidium bromide (EB).
Result	The DNA binding plot gives the relative order: 4 > 2 ≥ 1 ≈ 3 (Kapp: 5.4 × 105 M−1 for 4) (Fig. 3).
Result	Complex 1 alone is cleavage inactive when reacted with supercoiled (SC) pUC19 DNA and MPA as a reductant, but it cleaves DNA efficiently on addition of kanamycin A or phen under in situ reaction conditions (Fig. 4).
Result	Similar cleavage efficiency is observed using adducts 2 and 4 in the presence of MPA.
Result	A 5 µM solution of 1 cleaves SC DNA (∼500 ng) to the extent of ∼90% on addition of 30 µM phen or 50 µM kanamycin A and 5 mM MPA.
Problem	We have probed different aspects of the DNA binding and cleavage reactions from control experiments using various additives (Fig. 5).
Result	The reaction of copper sulfate with kanamycin A in the presence of MPA shows no apparent cleavage of SC DNA.
Result	Similarly, no cleavage of DNA occurs by Cu2+ (aq) or kanamycin A alone in presence of MPA.
Conclusion	Distamycin addition is found to inhibit the cleavage activity of the ternary complexes suggesting minor groove directing nature of 1–4 similarly to BLMs.
Conclusion	A similar inhibition of DNA cleavage is observed in the presence of hydroxyl radical scavengers such as DMSO indicating an oxidative cleavage pathway involving hydroxyl radicals.
Conclusion	Although the true identity of the reactive oxygen species is yet to be conclusively established, it could be either free hydroxyl radical or a metal bound oxo or hydroxo moiety effecting hydrogen abstraction from the deoxyribose sugar moiety.1,27
Result	The oxidative nature of the DNA cleavage is evidenced from the T4 ligase experiments which show no religation of the nicked circular DNA to its original SC form thus excluding the possibility of any hydrolytic cleavage.
Result	The disulfide bond of the Schiff base R′SSR is found to be stable under reducing conditions in the presence of excess MPA as the control experiments show enhancement of DNA cleavage efficiency of the ternary complex on increasing the concentration of MPA.
Conclusion	In conclusion, the ternary kanamycin A complex, obtained from a dicopper(ii) precursor containing a pendant cationic amine moiety, exemplifies the first potential model for three functional domains of BLMs.
Result	While the precursor complex is cleavage inactive, the ternary complexes containing kanamycin A and phen show efficient oxidative DNA cleavage in the presence of MPA.
Conclusion	Binding of kanamycin A to copper significantly enhances the DNA cleavage activity of 2 in comparison to the precursor or its bpy adduct thus mimicking the facilitating role of the sugar unit in the DNA cleavage activity of BLMs.
Conclusion	The higher cleavage efficiency of the phen complex in comparison to 1–3 could be related to the efficient DNA groove binding ability of this planar heterocyclic base.

Problem	Uptake of acetone, 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione and 2-oxopropanal on a water surface
Method	The uptake of acetone, 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione and 2-oxopropanal on pure water was investigated by means of a single drop experiment.
Method	This method allows to follow the concentrations in an aqueous drop in situ by UV-VIS-spectroscopy.
Result	Due to Henry's law saturation, the uptake coefficients γmeas decreased with time.
Result	Maximum values (T = 293 K) of 1.8 × 10−4, 1.5 × 10−4, 8 × 10−5 and 1.2 × 10−4 were observed for acetone, 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione and 2-oxopropanal, respectively.
Result	A fit of the experimental data to the resistance model and correction for the effect of gas phase diffusion yield values for the mass accommodation coefficients αacetone = (5.4−2.6+4.5) × 10−3, α2-butanone = (2.1−0.8+0.9) × 10−3, α2,3-butanedione = (1.0 ± 0.3) × 10−4 and α2-oxopropanal = (1.5 ± 0.5) × 10−4.
Method	A separate model approach is used to discuss the impact of turbulent mixing of the drop.
Background	Oxygenated hydrocarbons, such as the ketones being subject of the present study, are either emitted from biogenic and anthropogenic sources1 or formed as intermediates in the oxidation of atmospheric pollutants.
Problem	The photolysis of acetone, the most abundant ketone in the atmosphere, in the upper troposphere (UT) may quite efficiently produce HOx.
Problem	This channel might even be competitive to HOx formation from O(1D) + H2O under UT conditions.2
Background	Because of their high solubility, the mentioned gas phase species can be taken up at the surfaces of liquid tropospheric particles, such as cloud droplets or deliquescent aerosol particles.
Background	It is necessary to know the parameters that govern this process in order to evaluate the rate of transfer and thereby the compounds' budgets in either phase.
Problem	In the present work, the uptake of acetone, 2-butanone (methyl ethyl ketone), 2,3-butanedione (biacetyl) and 2-oxopropanal (methylglyoxal), respectively, on water is investigated.
Problem	Key parameters of the uptake process are extracted allowing subsequent modeling of the processes studied here.
Result	The uptake process is a convolution of different processes.
Method	For species that do not show reactions in the liquid phase these are (i) the gas phase diffusion described by the diffusion coefficient Dg, (ii) the actual transfer across the interface which is governed by the mass accommodation coefficient α, and (iii) the Henry's law saturation described in terms of HD0.5l.3
Background	Here H is the Henry's law coefficient and Dl is the diffusion coefficient in the liquid phase.
Background	For convenience H is given here in the frequently used units of mol l−1 atm−1.
Method	This can be converted to the SI units mol N−1 m−1 by mol N−1 m−1 = 9.87 × 10−3 mol l−1 atm−1.
Method	γmeas, which is the net probability for the uptake of a molecule of the trace gas species that hits the surface, can be expressed according to the so-called resistance model as follows:3 Here v is the average thermal velocity of the gas phase molecules, R is the gas constant, T is the temperature, and t represents the time the liquid phase is exposed to the gas phase; Γg accounts for the effect of gas phase diffusion.
Background	A number of determinations of the Henry's law coefficient of acetone and 2-butanone are reported in literature.
Background	The H-values at 293 K range from 35 to 45 mol l−1 atm−1 (= 0.34–0.45 mol N−1 m−1) for acetone4–8 and from 25 to 27 mol l−1 atm−1 (= 0.25–0.27 mol N−1 m−1) for 2-butanone.4,7,8
Background	For 2,3-butanone only one H-value for 293 K is reported.
Background	Betterton states 105 mol l−1 atm−1 (= 1.0 mol N−1 m−1).6
Background	His result for 298 K is about 30% higher than H = 58 mol l−1 atm−1 (= 0.57 mol N−1 m−1) given by Snider and Dawson.8
Background	The only determination for the Henry's law coefficient of 2-oxopropanal yields H = 5.42 × 103 mol l−1 atm−1 (= 53 mol N−1 m−1) at 293 K which is very high compared to the other species.9
Background	There is only one single determination of the mass accommodation coefficient for acetone with αacetone = 5.4 × 10−3 at T = 293 K.10
Background	For 2-butanone, 2,3-butanedione and 2-oxopropanal no experimental data for α are available.
Background	Possibly, because of this lack of data, these species are not included in current chemical multiphase mechanisms despite of their atmospheric importance, see ref. 11 and references therein.
Background	In a recent publication by Ervens et al11. a method for the estimation of unknown mass accommodation coefficients was proposed.
Background	According to this, αestacetone = 3.9 × 10−3, αest2-butanone = 2.1 × 10−3, αest2,3-butanedione = 3.5 × 10−3 and αest2-oxopropanal = 2.9 × 10−3 are estimated for T = 293 K.
Method	The uptake experiments were performed in a flow tube reactor (i.d. = 2.13 cm) which includes a section for generation and analysis of a single drop on a pipette’s tip (see Fig. 1).
Method	Both phases can be analyzed by UV-VIS spectroscopy.
Background	Details of the setup are described elsewhere.12
Method	The experiments were done at 293 K in humidified He (>99,999%, Linde) at 10.1 kPa total pressure.
Method	The total gas flow in the reactor was set to 1.00 × 104 cm3 min−1 by calibrated mass flow controllers (MKS 1259).
Method	Gas mixtures of the carrier and the trace gas were prepared in a special mixture apparatus and stored in large flasks.
Method	Before entering the flow tube via the main inlet a small flow containing the trace gas species was added to the main flow with partial pressures of pHe = 8.0 kPa and pH2O = 2.1 kPa.
Method	The pipette for drop generation had an outer diameter of 1.55 mm.
Method	The radius of the drops was rdrop = 2.2 mm resulting in a gas droplet contact time of tcont = 2.34 ms.
Method	The surface area of the drop Sdrop is calculated to be 1.67 × 10−6 m2 and the liquid volume Vdrop was 6.9 × 10−9 m3.
Method	These values were kept constant for all experiments.
Method	All drops were made of pure water (Millipore MilliQ, 18 MΩ cm).
Method	Acetone (99.8%, Fluka), 2-butanone (99.5%, Riedel-de Haën) and 2,3-butanedione (99%, Fluka) were used without further purification.
Result	The absorption spectra of 1 × 10−2 mol l−1 solutions measured with a commercial spectrometer (Hewlett Packard, HP 8453) are shown in Fig. 2.
Result	One band at 265 nm with εmax = 17.5 l mol−1 cm−1 is featured in the spectrum of acetone.
Result	2-Butanone has an absorption maximum of εmax = 20.5 l mol−1 cm−1 at 267 nm.
Background	These values compare well with literature data.13
Result	The spectrum of 2,3-butanedione has two bands in the 200–500 nm region.
Result	The strongest one centered at 284 nm has a maximum absorption coefficient of 26.5 l mol−1 cm−1.
Background	No comparable literature data were found.
Background	In order to obtain water-free and unpolymerized 2-oxopropanal, the commercially available aqueous solution (40%, Fluka) was processed similarly to the method Schweitzer et al. used to produce pure glyoxal.14
Result	The normalized spectrum of diluted 40% aqueous solution of 2-oxopropanal is shown in Fig. 3.
Result	A spectrum of a drop exposed to 2-oxopropanal in the gas phase is also shown.
Result	Both are qualitatively different.
Result	Neither the positions of the band and the minima nor the relative absorptions for different wavelengths match.
Problem	This is supposed to be due to oligomerisation in the undiluted stock solution.
Method	An attempt was made to prepare a solution of the monomer carbonyl by putting the pure substance into water.
Result	Although the resulting solution showed a spectrum that was qualitatively the same as that observed in the single drop experiment, it was not possible to quantify the amount of 2-oxopropanal dissolved.
Result	In all experiments a white precipitation was forming if the pure 2-oxopropanal was about to dissolve in the water indicating no complete dissolution of the substance.
Method	Therefore, 2-oxopropanal was dissolved from the gas phase into water using the setup described below.
Method	Helium was flowed over the water-free substance and subsequently bubbled through a bottle containing water.
Method	After this the gas phase was analyzed by UV-VIS spectroscopy.
Method	There was a bypass for the bubbler in order to check the gas phase concentration upstream the water bottle.
Result	Gas phase concentrations were calculated from the measured absorption difference between 451 and 470 nm using Δσ (451, 470 nm) = 6.2 × 10−20 cm2.15
Method	This was done alternating with the bypass of the bubbler shut and open.
Result	The concentration downstream the bubbler (bypass shut) was less than 1% of the concentration upstream (bypass open) indicating that almost all 2-oxopropanal is taken up in the bubbler.
Result	The amount of 2-oxopropanal taken up after 180 s of bubbling through the water bottle was calculated to be 4.26 × 10−3 mol.
Result	Knowing the volume of the water in the bottle from weighing, a liquid phase concentration of 4.7 × 10−2 mol l−1 resulted.
Method	The water bottle and the 2-oxopropanal saturator were weighed before and after the measurement.
Result	The mass balance was closed within the error limits.
Result	The spectrum of the resulting solution matches the drop's spectrum very well (see Fig. 3).
Result	The wavelength dependent absorption coefficient is shown in Fig. 2.
Result	One band at 284 nm shows a maximum absorption coefficient of εmax = 16.0 mol−1 l cm−1.
Background	No previous measurements of this spectrum are reported in literature.
Result	The gas phase concentrations were determined spectroscopically to be (0.67–11.1) × 1016 molecules cm−3 of acetone, (0.81–3.8) × 1016 molecules cm−3 of 2-butanone, (0.49–2.49) × 1016 molecules cm−3 of 2,3-butanedione and (0.60–2.14) × 1016 molecules cm−3 of 2-oxopropanal, respectively.
Background	For this σacetone(280 nm) = 5.05 × 10−20 cm2 molecule−1,16σ2-butanone(280 nm) = 5.74 × 10−20 cm2 molecule−1,16σ2,3-butanedione(280 nm) = 4.71 × 10−20 cm2 molecule−1,17 and σ2-oxopropanal(430 nm) = 1.04 × 10−19 cm2 molecule−1,15 were used.
Method	The primary result of each measurement is the absorbance A(λ) = caqdε(λ) with caq: liquid phase concentration, d: optical path length in the drop, ε: absorption coefficient.
Background	A(λ) is the decadic logarithm of the quotient of the intensities of the light at wavelength λ entering and leaving the drop, respectively.
Method	As shown in a previous publication,12 the measured uptake coefficient γmeas in the single drop experiment is related to caq by: where cg is the gas phase concentration of the trace gas species.
Method	The factor F is unity for all substances in this study; a is an abbreviation used in the following.
Background	Because of the limited solubility and diffusivity in the liquid phase, evaporation back to the gas phase will occur as the species taken up is accumulating in the liquid.
Method	In the resistance model, this is accounted for by the time dependence of the right hand term in eqn. (1) which increases with increasing exposure time t.
Method	Merging eqns. (1) and (2) and subsequent integration gives the time dependence of the concentration in the liquid: with and
Method	A fit of the experimental data to eqn. (3) with γ0 and b as parameters gives values for HD0.5l and the uptake coefficient γmeas for t = 0 which equals γ0.
Method	The latter includes only the mass accommodation coefficient α and the effect of the gas phase diffusion.
Method	A previously developed computer model was employed in order to correct for this effect and obtain values for α.
Method	Shortly, the model solves the diffusion equation in the gas phase numerically for the period of time the gas phase takes to pass the drop tcont.
Background	Details are given elsewhere.12
Problem	The result of the model calculation is the dependence of the observed γ0 on the mass accommodation coefficient α.
Problem	The plots for the four species investigated in this study are shown in Fig. 4.
Method	The gas phase diffusion coefficients Dg were calculated from the binary diffusion coefficients DX–He and DX–H2O according to:18
Background	Experimental data for the binary diffusion coefficients of the species being the subject of this study are not available.
Method	They were calculated using the method of Fuller et al.19
Method	However, a change of 10% in Dg would only cause a change in the calculated α of less than 5% even for the highest γ0-values observed in this study.
Result	Two limiting cases are visible in Fig. 4.
Result	For very low α-values, the uptake is only limited by α itself resulting in γ0 = α.
Result	On the other hand, for very high values of α, the gas phase diffusion limits the rate of uptake and γ0 is independent of α.
Result	Note that the four curves shown in Fig. 4 are nearly identical showing almost no visible difference.
Method	The time course of the liquid phase concentration of acetone which is shown in Fig. 5 is calculated from the observed differences of the absorptions at 265 and 320 nm, respectively.
Method	The difference of the absorptions was applied in order to correct for base line shifts.
Method	The measurements were done at four different gas phase concentrations of acetone.
Method	Between 9 and 14 individual experiments were used for averaging.
Result	The qualitative behavior was the same for the different gas phase concentrations and Fig. 6 shows the calculated γmeas according to eqn. (2) for all four of them.
Conclusion	As expected, no dependence of the uptake coefficient on the gas phase concentration can be seen.
Result	The only difference is the decreasing signal to noise ratio with increasing concentration.
Result	All curves shown in Fig. 6 show a maximum after about 4 s.
Background	This behavior was already found in a previous study12 and is attributed to the establishment of a steady state mixing of the drop which is driven by the gas phase flowing around.
Method	The initial region is excluded in the following fitting procedure because the actual features of the uptake process are only visible after steady state mixing has been reached.
Result	The maximum value of the uptake coefficient that was observed was 1.8 × 10−4.
Method	An assumption made in the resistance model described by eqn. (1) is that the liquid phase is infinitely deep.20
Method	This results in an infinite capacity of the liquid for uptake of the trace species.
Method	This, however, can never be the case in a real experiment.
Method	Therefore, this model can only fit experimental data for conditions far away from saturation.
Result	The calculated saturation concentration for a gas phase acetone concentration of 1.11 × 1017 molecules cm−3 is about 0.17 mol l−1 using H = 40 mol l−1 atm−1.4
Method	Only data below a threshold of 40% of this value were used for fitting the measured uptake coefficient to eqn. (3).
Result	The parameters of the best fit shown in Fig. 5 are γ0 = 3.0 × 10−3 and b = 4.0 × 103 s−0.5.
Result	As expected, the fit line shows strong deviations from the experimental data for longer times.
Result	The uptake process becomes slower than predicted as the drop's capacity for the solute gradually saturates.
Result	But, nevertheless, the initial behavior of the concentration is represented very well.
Result	After correction for the effect of gas phase diffusion (see Fig. 4), α = (5.4−2.6+4.5) × 10−3 is obtained estimating an overall error for γ0 of 30%.
Background	This is in excellent agreement with the data of Duan et al10. and the estimation method of Ervens et al.11
Result	HD0.5l = (1.5 ± 0.5) × 10−5 mol N−1 s−0.5 is obtained from bvia eqn. (5).
Result	Assuming Dl = (1 ± 0.2) × 10−9 m2 s−1 and an overall error for b of 30%, H is estimated to be in the range 29–71 mol l−1 atm−1 which is in agreement with the measurements.
Method	The differences between the absorptions at 267 and 320 nm give the time dependent concentration of 2-butanone in the drop.
Result	As shown in Fig. 7, the uptake of 2-butanone is quite similar to that of acetone.
Method	Between 12 and 14 experiments were averaged for gas phase concentrations of 0.81, 2.44, 3.12 and 3.75 in units of 1016 molecules cm−3 of 2-butanone.
Result	The maximum value of the time dependent uptake coefficient calculated according to eqn. (2) was 1.5 × 10−4, independent of the gas phase concentration.
Result	Using H = 27 mol l−1 atm−1,4 the saturation liquid phase concentration for cg = 3.8 × 1016 molecules cm−3 is about 4.0 × 10−2 mol l−1.
Method	Using a 40% of this value threshold, the same fitting procedure was employed as for acetone.
Result	The parameters for the fit shown in Fig. 7 are γ0 = 1.6 × 10−3 and b = 4.9 × 103 s−0.5 with an estimated overall error of 30%.
Result	α = (2.1−0.8+0.9) × 10−3 is obtained after correction for the effect of the gas phase diffusion using Fig. 4 which equals the estimation according to Ervens et al.11
Result	HD0.5l = (1.1 ± 0.3) × 10−5 mol N−1 s−0.5 can be extracted from bvia eqn. (5).
Result	With Dl = (1 ± 0.2) × 10−9 m2 s−1, H is estimated to be between 23 and 50 mol l−1 atm−1 which is in agreement with the measurements.
Method	Using the differences of the absorptions at 284 and 334 nm the time dependent concentration in the drop, see Fig. 8, was calculated.
Result	The measured time dependent uptake coefficient γmeas is shown in Fig. 9 for the different gas phase concentrations of 2,3-butanedione that were used.
Method	The mean of at least 12 individual measurements for each gas phase concentration was taken for calculation according to eqn. (2).
Result	For times larger than 7 s there is no significant difference between the four graphs.
Conclusion	The variations before this time are attributed to the onset of the mixing of the drop.
Result	The highest uptake coefficient that was observed is around 8 × 10−5 neglecting the first 7 s.
Result	Fig. 8 shows that the saturation of the drop after 100 s is very small unlike the acetone and 2-butanone experiments.
Conclusion	This is at least partially due to the much larger Henry's law coefficient.
Result	Using H = 105 mol l−1 atm−1,6 all experimental data are within 30% of the saturation concentration which is around 0.1 mol l−1 for cg = 2.49 × 1016 molecules cm−3.
Method	Consequently, all data were used for fitting to eqn. (3) except the first 5 s.
Result	The best fit shown in Fig. 8 as a solid line is obtained using γ0 = 1.0 × 10−4 and b = 1.9 × 103 s−0.5.
Result	Employing the computer model for correcting for the gas phase diffusion effect, α = (1.0 ± 0.3) × 10−4 and HD0.5l = (2.6 ± 0.8) × 10−5 mol N−1 s−0.5 are obtained.
Result	The correction is smaller than 5% in this case indicating that the uptake is hardly limited by gas phase diffusion.
Conclusion	This value for the mass accommodation coefficient is more than one order of magnitude lower than the estimation according to Ervens et al.11
Result	The estimation for H assuming Dl = (1 ± 0.2) × 10−9 m2 s−1 is 53 < H/mol l−1 atm−1 < 122 covering literature data.
Method	The time dependent concentration of 2-oxopropanal in the drop is calculated from the difference of the absorptions at 284 nm and 334 nm, respectively.
Result	The picture shown in Fig. 10 is quite similar to the one for 2,3-butanedione because H is high for this species, too.
Result	A saturation concentration of caq = 4.6 mol l−1 is calculated for cg = 2.14 × 1016 molecules cm−3 with H = 5.4 × 103 mol l−1 atm−1.9
Result	All experimental data are well below 2% of this.
Problem	Therefore virtually no effect of saturation is expected.
Result	This is verified by the plot which nearly is a straight line with constant slope.
Method	Measurements were done for gas phase concentrations of 0.6, 0.88, 1.35 and 2.14 × 1016 molecules cm−3 of 2-oxopropanal.
Method	14 Individual experimental runs were averaged, respectively.
Result	For all four concentrations the calculated uptake coefficients γmeas showed the same time course similar to that of 2,3-butanedione with a maximum of about 1.2 × 10−4.
Result	The fit to eqn. (3) was performed using all data except the first 5 s yielding γ0 = 1.5 × 10−4 and b = 7.5 × 102 s−0.5 with estimated overall errors of 30%.
Result	The correction for the gas phase was less than 5% leading to α = (1.5 ± 0.5) × 10−4.
Result	This value is failed by about a factor of 20 by the estimation method of Ervens et al11.HD0.5l = (7.2 ± 2.2) × 10−5 was calculated via eqn. (5).
Result	From this, H is estimated to be in the range (1.4–3.4) × 102 mol l−1 atm−1.
Conclusion	This is more than one order of magnitude lower than the value given by Betterton and Hoffmann.9
Conclusion	This discrepancy might be due to different influences of the oligomerisation of the carbonyl in both experiments.
Conclusion	However, the estimate is still much higher than the values for the other species.
Result	The resistance model shows strong deviations from the experimental data for larger times as can be seen in Figs. 5 and 7.
Background	This is due to the assumptions made for deriving eqn. (1) which are not fully met by the present experiment.
Problem	In order to check which are the effects of these assumptions, the uptake process is treated numerically in an explicit form.
Method	The liquid was treated as a sphere with concentrical layers of thickness Δr.
Method	The fluxes of the trace species in and out each sphere where calculated for discrete time steps according to the diffusion equation in spherical coordinates: The flux into the outermost layer which results from the uptake of the trace species from the gas phase is: Here p is the partial pressure of the trace species in the gas phase.
Method	For a test of the explicit model, the radius of the drop was set to infinity.
Background	This situation is comparable to the resistance model where an infinitely deep liquid with a plane surface is assumed for the derivation of the resistance of the bulk liquid (right hand term in eqn. (1))20.H and γ0 were taken from the best fit in Fig. 5.
Method	Both models are compared for the uptake of acetone in Fig. 11.
Result	The principal behavior of the explicit model (dashed line) is the same as that of the resistance model (straight line).
Result	There is only a little shift which seems to be built up at early times.
Problem	The shift might be due to another assumption implied in the resistance model, i.e. the decoupling of the individual processes convoluted in the phase transfer.
Problem	This is expressed by an instantaneous saturation of the liquid layer adjacent to the surface.
Conclusion	The outermost layer becomes only saturated step by step in the explicit model which results in a steeper concentration gradient.
Conclusion	Therefore, the flux is larger in the first phase of the uptake process.
Method	Setting rdrop to the experimental value of 1.1 × 10−3 m and keeping all other parameters constant gives the dash-dot plot in Fig. 11.
Result	While the initial behavior remains unchanged, the modeled concentrations for larger times become smaller than in the resistance model.
Conclusion	This slower increase is in good agreement with the experiment.
Conclusion	Therefore, the deviation of the resistance model from the experiment seems to be mainly resulting in the radial symmetry of the system.
Background	Another effect that is not included in the resistance model is possible turbulent mixing of the bulk liquid.
Background	Danckwerts who derived the resistance term for liquid phase saturation in eqn. (1) assumed a ‘quiescent liquid’ in which mass transport is only performed by diffusion.20
Background	On the other hand, the presence of a mixing motion was observed in the single drop experiment.12
Background	This is supposed to be driven by the gas phase flowing around the drop.
Background	It takes along the surface layer of the liquid by means of friction from the most up stream area of the drop to the most downstream one.
Background	In these regions the liquid is supposed to come from and to go into bulk liquid, respectively.
Background	This, in turn, might induce turbulent mixing in the core of the drop.
Method	In order to approach this situation in the explicit model, the liquid sphere was divided into two parts, (i) the inner core of radius rmix which is totally mixed resulting in a uniform concentration profile and (ii) the outer shell which follows the gas phase laminarly and where radial transport is performed by diffusion only.
Background	This is called the ‘Film model’ in the treatment of Danckwerts.20
Method	The results for different radiuses of the core are compared with the experimental data for acetone in Fig. 12.
Result	It can be seen that, although the initial behavior is unaffected, the deviation from the experiment gets larger with increasing core radius.
Conclusion	It is concluded that in a drop under the present experimental conditions the effect of turbulent mixing on radial transport is negligible.
Background	It can be proposed that the observed mixing process proceeds as follows, see Fig. 13 for illustration.
Conclusion	The surface liquid is flushed to the downstream part of the drop laminarly.
Conclusion	Subsequently it is passing the drop in a narrow tube around its symmetry axis that is parallel to the gas flow in the converse direction.
Conclusion	At the end of this tube the liquid is again flushed onto the surface and dragged along by the gas phase again.
Conclusion	All other parts of the drop follow this circulation laminarly with tracks of a similar shape but smaller size.
Method	This flow pattern was also the result of study by Chen who solved the governing differential equations for the diffusion simultaneously with those for convective transport.21
Conclusion	The application of the resistance model is verified only for conditions far away from liquid phase saturation as it was done in this study.
Problem	The uptake of four ketones was investigated using a single drop experiment that allows in situ analysis of the liquid phase by absorption spectroscopy.
Method	After fitting to a model values for the mass accommodation coefficients α are obtained.
Result	For acetone and 2-butanone similar values of some 10−3 are obtained.
Result	For mass accommodation coefficients of this order of magnitude the rate of gas uptake under tropospheric conditions is affected by both Γdiff and α.22
Result	However, under the experimental conditions of this study, i.e. large drops with r ≈ 10−3 m, saturation is reached after roughly 102 s.
Background	The capacity of tropospheric cloud droplets with r ≈ 10−5 m is about six orders of magnitude lower.
Conclusion	Therefore, saturation is expected to occur on a very short time scale if no reactive sink in the liquid phase would be present.
Result	For 2,3-butanedione and 2-oxopropanal mass accommodation coefficients somewhat larger than 10−4 are obtained.
Conclusion	The uptake rate under tropospheric conditions is therefore predominantly limited by α.
Result	The Henry's law coefficients for these bicarbonyls are much larger than for the monocarbonyls.
Conclusion	Therefore, Henry's law saturation is not reached on the timescale of the present experiment.
Conclusion	However, regarding atmospheric aerosol particles having a much lower volumes, it is expected to be reached on a still very short timescale even if the very high H for 2-oxopropanal determined by Betterton and Hoffmann is considered which is about two orders of magnitude larger than that for acetone.9
Background	According to the present knowledge, tropospheric aqueous phase radical chemistry could establish a sink driven by OH during the day and NO3 during night-time.
Method	If Henry's law equilibrium is established for the trace species, the relative importance of the reactions in the gas and aqueous phase, respectively, can be estimated.
Result	In Table 1 this is done considering only the reactions with OH in either phase of a continental cloud at 25 °C.
Method	The partitioning of the trace species between the two phases Naq/Ng is calculated as the product of HRT and the liquid water content (LWC).
Result	In terms of molecule number fractions, less than one per thousand molecules of acetone, 2-butanone and 2-3-butanedione are in the aqueous phase.
Result	For 2-oxopropanal having a much higher Henry's law coefficient, only a few percent of the molecules are dissolved.
Result	Nevertheless, the picture changes if the ratio of the rates of the reactions between the ketones and OH in either phase are regarded.
Result	The rate of the aqueous phase reaction is at least four orders of magnitude larger than that for the gas phase reaction for all substances being subject to this study.
Conclusion	This is due to the higher concentrations of the reactants in the aqueous phase.
Method	Multiplying the partitioning Naq/Ng with the ratio of the rates Raq/Rg gives the ratio of the conversions due to the reaction with OH in the aqueous and gas phase, respectively.
Result	This value is given in the last column of Table 1.
Result	Obviously, the conversion by the aqueous phase reaction is much higher for all substances.
Conclusion	The uptake parameters obtained in this study will be used for the extension of atmospheric multiphase chemistry models such as CAPRAM in its different versions, see ref. 11 and references therein.

Problem	The dipeptide cyclic(glycyltryptophanyl) in the gas phase: A concerted action of density functional calculations, S0–S1 two-photon ionization, spectral UV/UV hole burning and laser photoelectron spectroscopy
Problem	The S0–S1 spectrum of the dipeptide cyclic(glycyltryptophanyl) (cGW) has been recorded by two-photon ionization (R2PI) spectroscopy of thermally evaporated, jet-cooled molecules.
Result	The R2PI spectrum contains several vibronic transitions with relatively small spacing.
Result	Density functional theory predicts more than 8 conformers.
Conclusion	Applying spectral UV/UV hole burning spectroscopy we found that the strongest S0–S1 transitions belong to a single conformer.
Conclusion	The transition at 35 058 cm−1 is attributed to the S1 origin and the other transitions to inter-ring modes.
Problem	To obtain further information on the conformer structure, resonant two-colour two-photon ionization photoelectron spectroscopy (R(1 + 1′)PI PES) has been performed via the two most intense S0–S1 transitions.
Background	To our knowledge these are the first PE spectra of a dipeptide.
Result	The spectra are broad with a smooth onset.
Conclusion	The lowest ionization onset lies at 7.709 eV, but is assumed to be not the adiabatic IE.
Result	Theoretical calculations with the B3LYP/6-311++G** theory predict that in the most stable neutral conformer an N–H group of the dipeptide ring binds to the indole π system.
Result	This structure has the highest IE of all conformers investigated and shows a strong geometry change upon ionization.
Conclusion	The fact that the IE of the experimentally observed cGW conformer is higher than that of 3-methylindole is taken as a signature of a repulsion between the two rings in the cation: This could be explained by the N–H group of the peptide ring now interacting with the positively charged indole π system.
Conclusion	The conformational assignment by R(1 + 1′)PI PES is tentative, because all of the lowest-energetic neutral conformers are expected to behave similarly in regard to ionization energies.
Background	The advantage of gas phase measurements is the applicability of spectroscopy methods such as resonant two-photon ionization (R2PI) spectroscopy combined with mass-selective detection, spectral UV/UV or IR/UV hole burning (UV/UV SHB or IR/UV SHB) spectroscopy and resonant two-colour two-photon ionization photoelectron spectroscopy (R(1 + 1′)PI PES).
Background	Further advantages of gas phase investigations are usually sharp spectra which reveal detailed structural information.
Background	Most importantly, however, gas phase data can be directly compared to theory.
Background	For reviews on biological molecules in the gas phase see .ref. 1–4
Background	Levy and co-workers were the first to perform spectroscopy of di- and tripeptides in the gas phase by using laser desorption with R2PI and mass-selective detection.5,6
Background	For tryptophan-containing peptides they obtained sharp spectra with distinct lines despite the many vibrational degrees of freedom and the many possible conformers.
Background	The spectroscopy of laser-desorbed small peptides was later improved by using double resonance methods.7,8
Background	Neutral laser desorption and R2P ionization and laser fragmentation was also introduced as a new species selective inlet system into mass spectrometry.9–11
Background	Thermal evaporation of natural unprotected peptides is impossible.12,13
Background	Up to now only for some modified peptides in which the polar functional groups have been protected by methyl groups a thermal evaporation of intact molecules is reported.14,15
Result	Cyclic dipeptides have no polar N or C terminal and hence, as we show here, can be vaporized intact by heating.
Background	To our knowledge up to now no investigation of cyclic peptides in the gas phase has been performed.
Method	UV/UV or IR/UV double resonance methods are widely used in spectroscopy of floppy molecules and clusters.2
Method	The strategy to obtain structural information by using zero kinetic energy electron PES (ZEKE16), mass analyzed threshold ionization (MATI17) or high resolution conventional laser PES18 is not new.18–25
Background	In these publications model systems, such as extended molecules with a chromophore and a flexible side chain, have been investigated.
Background	Whereas for non-polar side groups sharp PE spectra are observed exclusively18–20 for polar groups sharp spectra are only expected for conformers where the interaction of the charge site and the polar group are minimized, i.e. unfolded, linear structures.18
Background	In folded structures the polar group solvates the charge strongly and structural changes upon ionization become so large that it is impossible to reach the origin of the cation ground state and obtain vibrationally resolved spectra.22
Background	Nevertheless, the IE shift together with theory may provide useful information to allow an identification of the neutral conformation.22
Background	Only in one case of an aromatic molecule with a polar side chain, both folded and unfolded conformers showed sharp vibrationally resolved spectra.24,25
Problem	In this paper we report on spectroscopy of the cyclic(glycyltryptophanyl) (cGW) in the gas phase.
Method	R2PI spectroscopy with mass selection has been used to record the S0–S1 spectrum.
Method	UV/UV SHB was applied to analyze the number of conformers present in the molecular beam.
Method	To obtain further information on the conformer structure, R(1 + 1′)PI PES was performed for the two most intense S0–S1 transitions.
Problem	Density functional theory (DFT) calculations on the B3LYP/6-311++G** level are used to interpret the number and structure of observed conformers, IEs and geometry shifts upon ionization.
Background	A tentative conformer identification is given on the basis of a comparison between experiment and theory.
Method	The cyclic peptide cGW was purchased from Bachem.
Method	It has been synthesized from pure L-tryptophan (W) and hence cGW has also L chirality.
Method	The apparatus is described in detail elsewhere.18
Method	Briefly it consists (Fig. 1) of a supersonic jet chamber (a), a field-free time-of-flight PE spectrometer (b) and a pulsed linear time-of-flight mass spectrometer (c).
Method	A modified pulsed nozzle (General Valve, orifice diameter 300 μm) was heated to achieve a suitable sample vapor pressure.
Method	The indole sample has been added to a sample container above the nozzle and heated to 325 K. The cGW sample, crystalline at room temperature, is placed directly in the nozzle head and heated to 525 K. Ar was used as carrier gas with a backpressure of 5 bar.
Method	The jet passed the skimmer (1.5 mm orifice) and crossed the laser beam at right angles in the middle of the PE spectrometer.
Method	The time-of-flight PE spectrometer is 900 mm long, μ-metal shielded and covered inside by graphite.
Method	Only photoelectrons emitted into the small acceptance angle of the two-stage micro channel plate (MCP) detector were detected and their time measured with high precision in a start–stop logic.
Method	Note that for photoelectron spectroscopy no ion extraction plates have been used within the PE spectrometer.
Method	After ionization, the ions drift downwards with their supersonic jet velocity into a pulsed linear time-of-flight (linTOF) mass spectrometer (mass resolution m/Δm × 100).
Method	Hence R2PI mass spectra, mass-analyzed R2PI spectra and R(1 + 1′)PI PE spectra with simultaneous mass control can be recorded in the same apparatus.
Method	Only for UV/UV SHB experiments three deflection plates were introduced at the ionization site in the PE spectrometer.
Method	In this case the ions were formed in an electric field and deflected into the former electron detector.
Method	The laser system consisted of two Nd:YAG laser-pumped and frequency-doubled tunable dye lasers (5–7 ns pulse width) and an additional excimer-pumped frequency-doubled dye laser which can be arbitrarily shifted in time with respect to the Nd:YAG-pumped dye lasers.
Method	For recording the R2PI spectrum ions were formed in the PE spectrometer and, after drifting down, mass-analyzed in the pulsed linear TOF mass spectrometer.
Method	The S0–S1 spectrum was recorded by tuning the laser wavelength and recording the parent cations with a gated integrator.
Method	For this purpose we used the Nd:YAG-pumped frequency doubled dye laser (resolution in the UV: < 1 cm−1, 100 μJ pulse−1, 1000 mm lens out of focus).
Result	We found that the cooling efficiency of the supersonic jet very much depended on the expansion gas and improved with increasing mass of the carrier gas.
Method	For the SHB a three-plate ion optics (repeller plate, intermediate plate, grounded exit plate) was mounted in the PE spectrometer which deflected and accelerated the ions to the electron detector of the PE spectrometer.
Method	By changing the MCP voltages suitable for ion detection mass and UV/UV SHB spectra have been measured.
Background	The mass resolution m/Δm of this linTOF is 1500.
Method	This setup is needed to deflect the ions formed by the hole burning laser by using a pulsed electric field scheme.
Method	The hole burning laser performed ground state depletion by R2PI 4 μs before the probe laser ionizes the remaining neutrals.
Method	For ion discrimination coming from different lasers, ions stemming from the hole burning laser were for 4 μs accelerated backwards (+500 V at the second plate, repeller plate grounded) and neutralized on the repeller plate.
Method	A suitable pulsed voltage (750 V) was then applied to the repeller shortly after new ions had been formed by the probe laser.
Method	The SHB spectrum was recorded by scanning the hole burning laser while the probe laser was set to the S0–S1 origin transition of cGW.
Method	Each time when the neutral ground state of the cGW conformer was depopulated a dip appeared in the probe laser signal.
Method	Note that in this mode the dip depth directly correlates with the transition moment of the transition.
Method	Also a reversed scheme has been used to test the percentage of depletion for each transition of interest.
Method	For R(1 + 1′)PI PE spectroscopy ionization was performed by two frequency-doubled dye lasers pumped by the same Nd:YAG laser.
Method	The ionizing laser (laser 2) was time-delayed by 3 ns against laser 1 which performed the S0–S1 excitation.
Result	The photon energy of laser 2 was not sufficient for a two-photon ionization.
Result	The one-photon signal of laser 1 was lower than 5% of the total two-color ion signal.
Method	Typical laser pulse energies were 10 μJ for laser 1 and 20 μJ for laser 2 (1000 mm lens, out of focus).
Method	To optimize the electron energy resolution, the photon energy of laser 2 was chosen to keep the maximum photon excess energy below 200 meV.
Result	For indole we achieved a PE energy resolution ΔE = 1 meV and an absolute accuracy of ±2 meV.
Result	The accuracy for cGW was ±3 meV due to the smooth onset at the ionization onset.
Problem	Our motivation to perform calculations on cGW was (i) to obtain the relative energies of the neutral and cation conformers, (ii) to calculate the vibrational frequencies for the lowest conformers, (iii) to calculate the vertical IEs and (iv) to explore the structural differences between the neutral and cation for the most stable conformers.
Method	For conformer assignment we use the comparison of the experimental to calculated data, such as relative neutral conformer energies, vertical IEs and neutral to cation geometry shifts.
Background	So far no ab initio or DFT calculations of a cyclic peptide are reported.
Method	We used the density functional B3LYP26 because according to our experience18 it seems to better describe flexible molecules with polar groups than other methods.
Method	It is well known that B3LYP systematically underestimates intermolecular electron correlation forces as present in folded molecules.
Background	There could be several explanations.
Background	One would be an accidental error compensation, another that electrostatic forces dominate the binding.
Method	The greatest advantage of DFT methods is that they are fast enough to allow the use of big basis sets even for large molecules.
Method	This is very important for folded molecules because it minimizes the basis set superposition error usually favoring folded molecules energetically.
Method	DFT calculations have been performed with the Gaussian 98 program.27
Method	The basis sets 3-21G, 6-31+G* and 6-311++G** were used.
Method	The large basis set 6-311++G** was applied for neutral cGW to especially account for diffuse electron distributions.
Result	By increasing the basis set from 3-21G to 6-31+G* we observe big changes in the relative conformer energies.
Result	A saturation effect occurs when increasing the basis set from 6-31+G* to 6-311++G** (Table 1) which might be due to accidental error compensation for the smaller basis set.
Method	We also calculated vibrational frequencies (B3LYP/6-31+G*) for the neutral conformers 1, 2 and 3 which are needed for calculating the Gibbs free energy and also used for a tentative vibrational assignment in section IV.2.
Problem	To find the local minima the conformational landscape of cGW has been explored using the program Tinker.28
Method	It performs a general conformational search for the entire potential energy surface by using a hopping algorithm29 which is able to overcome barriers.
Background	The program Tinker also minimizes each conformer after its generation.
Method	The chosen MM3 force field30 is known to be quite successful in reproducing molecular IR spectra.
Method	In order to make sure we do not miss a conformer, in addition also a potential energy surface scan was performed using the OPLS all atom force field.31
Method	The results from the both scans were collected and the conformers processed with B3LYP by stepwise increasing the basis set size.
Background	For discussions of the type of conformers of cGW in Fig. 2a the relevant rotational axes and the resultant structural possibilities are shown.
Result	The conformers of cGW can be classified as follows: The peptide ring can be moved into three positions when rotating about the C1–C2 axis (Fig. 2a, right side, see also atomic numbering C0–C2).
Result	For each of these conformers the indole ring then can be switched into six positions by rotation around the C0–C1 axis (Fig. 2b, left side).
Result	This gives theoretically 18 conformers.
Result	The most stable conformers are formed by rotating the C1–C2 axis into the plane which is perpendicular to the indole ring (perpendicular conformer class).
Result	The other tilted conformers are sterically unfavoured or unstable.
Result	By our calculations 8 stable conformers have been found for neutral cGW.
Result	The calculated relative energies with respect to the lowest conformer are presented in Table 1.
Method	A full geometry optimization of the neutral conformers was performed by using the B3LYP/6-311++G** method.
Result	The calculations show that the peptide ring (cyclic(glycylglycyl) or 2,5-piperazinedione) is not planar resulting in a double well potential (see Fig. 2b).
Result	In the unperturbed cyclic(glycylglycyl) the minima are equal in energy and the barrier is expected to be low because of the high flexibility between the amide groups described in biochemical text books.
Method	In cGW this double well is superimposed with a ring-to-ring interaction potential (schematic drawing in Fig. 2b).
Result	Depending on the size and steepness of this ring-to-ring interaction potential, for each of the above-mentioned conformers either two sub-conformers a and b (this is the case for conformers 1 and 3), or only one conformer (a or b for conformers 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8) exist.
Result	The peptide-ring sub-conformers are very similar in energy (energy difference 41 cm−1 for conformers 1a and 1b, and 18 cm−1 for conformers 3a and 3b, see Table 1).
Result	The calculated isomerization barrier (B3LYP/6-31+G*) from conformer 1b to conformer 1a is 2 cm−1 and already the zero point vibration would be above the barrier.
Result	The same is expected for conformers 3a and 3b for which the energetic difference is even smaller.
Background	The accuracy of the reaction barrier calculation is not known.
Background	However, even if the isomerization barrier between the a and the b forms would be larger than 2 cm−1 but lower than 300 cm−1, the more unstable form would be converted to the lower conformer in the supersonic expansion.32
Problem	In the following we assume that conformers 1b and 3b are experimentally not observable.
Problem	It is evident, however, that the resulting broad and anharmonic potential strongly reduces the vibrational frequencies in this coordinate, increases the vibrational density and by this favors these conformers on the Gibbs free energy landscape.
Result	In Table 1 the results of the B3LYP density functional calculations of the 8 stable neutral conformers of the dipeptide cGW (see also a and b conformers) using the 3-21G, 6-31+G* and 6-311++G** basis sets are presented.
Background	Relative conformer energies are given in cm−1.
Result	The four lowest structures are shown in Fig. 3.
Result	With the increase of the basis set from 3-21G to 6-31+G* the energetic order of some conformers changes.
Result	When increasing the basis set from 6-31+G* to 6-311++G** the conformer order is conserved and the changes in the relative conformer energies become small, which might be due to an error compensation for the smaller basis set.
Problem	As discussed above, structures 1b and 3b are not stable by zero point vibration.
Result	Conformer 2 which is characterized by a C–H⋯π interaction has a relative energy of 194 cm−1.
Result	Conformer 3a which is similar to conformer 1a but with the indole ring switched by 180° lies 355 cm−1 above 1a.
Result	In this conformer the N–H group seems to have better access to the indole π system.
Conclusion	The fact that it is less stable than conformer 1a is attributed to a positive partial charge on the carbon in position 4.
Problem	Only conformers with relative energies well below 365 cm−1 (∼ kT at 525 K) are expected to have measurable populations in the beam.
Problem	This also holds for conformer 2 but not for conformer 3.
Method	To calculate the exact thermal population beside the energy difference of the electronic energies also the vibrational zero point energy and the vibrational density of states has to be considered.
Method	Assuming harmonic potentials all this would be included in the Gibbs free energy.
Result	For a temperature of 300 K it shows an increase of the energetic spacing between conformer 1 and 2 from 355 cm−1 to 675 cm−1.
Problem	This energy difference is expected to further increase when the strong anharmonicity of the inversion coordinate in conformer 1 would be taken into account.
Conclusion	Hence from theory we predict that a great entropy effect is forcing the dipeptide population into conformer 1.
Problem	The high energy of conformer 3 (355 cm−1) above conformer 1 should result in a marginal or vanishing population of conformer 3.
Background	Comparing conformer 1 and 3 the entropy argument is not helpful because also conformer 3 has a broad double minimum in the peptide ring inversion coordinate.
Background	It is well known that barriers lower than 300 cm−1 can be overcome during the supersonic jet expansion.32
Background	To compare theoretical data to the experimental data it would be important to calculate the barrier heights between conformers 2 and 1 as well as 3 and 1.
Method	Unfortunately, because of the complexity of the coordinates and the size of the system, it is impossible to calculate such isomerization barriers.
Problem	We calculated vertical (6-311++G** basis set) and adiabatic (3-21G and 6-31+G* basis sets) IEs for comparison with the PE results in the hope to be able to assign the structure of the observed conformer.
Method	The cation geometry optimization was performed with the 3-21G basis set for all 8 conformers, and with the 6-31+G* basis set for seven conformers.
Conclusion	The B3LYP/6-31+G* calculation for conformer 7 did not converge presumably because the potential surface is very flat.
Result	We checked the dependence of the cation structural changes on the basis set, but found that the 3-21G structures are very similar to the structures found with the 6-31+G* basis set.
Result	The calculated data are collected in Table 2 and the comparison of neutral and cation structures is shown in Fig. 4.
Background	We also calculated the vertical IEs of the b conformers of structures 1 and 3, although it is clear that they are not populated due to their low isomerization barriers (see above).
Result	The differences between the vertical IEs of conformers a and b nevertheless give hints as to how steep the ion ground state potential at the vertical geometry might be.
Result	When optimizing the geometry in the cation ground state the sub-conformers a and b formed by the peptide ring inversion converge for conformers 1a and 1b as well as 3a and 3b to a single minimum.
Result	This is explained by a large repulsive peptide ring-to-indole ring interaction in the cation which forces the system into one minimum.
Result	A calculation of the geometrical average of the changes of all atomic coordinates between neutral and cation (termed RMS value in Table 2) shows that, except one conformer, all conformers undergo large structural changes upon ionization.
Result	Fig. 4 shows the neutral-to-cation geometry changes of conformers 1, 2 and 6.
Result	For this the neutral and the cation structure are overlaid with the indole ring and conformational changes indicated by arrows and lines.
Conclusion	In all cases the structural changes are so large that it might be difficult to reach the adiabatic IE.
Result	For conformers 1, 2 (Fig. 4a,b) and 3 (not shown) the large geometry change is explained by the difference between the attractive (neutral) versus the repulsive (cation) N–H⋯π (conformers 1 and 3) or C–H⋯π (conformer 2) interaction.
Result	In Fig. 4c the neutral and the cationic structures of conformer 6, the most stable cation conformer, are compared.
Result	In this conformer the CO group (note the negative partial charge on O) has access to the indole chromophore.
Result	Whereas conformer 6 is rather unstable in the neutral due to the repulsive CO⋯π interaction it becomes the most stable conformer when the π system is positively charged.
Background	In the following we present R2PI mass, R2PI S0–S1, UV/UV SHB and R(1 + 1′)PI PE spectra of the dipeptide cGW.
Method	For recording the R2PI mass spectrum of cGW (Fig. 5) the second harmonic of a Nd:YAG laser-pumped dye laser was tuned to the S0–S1 origin transition.
Method	The mass spectrum was recorded by using the PE spectrometer as flight tube for the linTOF.
Result	Mass 234 Da corresponds to the parent radical cation.
Result	Two fragments with masses 131 Da and 117 Da are observed.
Result	These masses correspond to the neutral fragments 3-methylindole (131 Da) and indole (117 Da) which are then ionized by the laser pulse.
Problem	In the case of a cationic fragmentation of tryptophan instead of mass 117 Da mass 130 Da would be expected as the most intense fragment.33
Result	Measurements with different laser intensities and wavelengths confirm that both masses are neutral fragments containing the indole chromophore.
Result	The ionization of the neutral fragments is a minor contribution in the mass spectrum at low photon energies but increases when coming closer to the indole S0–S1 resonance.
Problem	Because of the mass selection there should be no influence of the fragment ionization on the R2PI spectrum of cGW.
Result	Nevertheless we find a small peak in the cGW spectrum at exactly the energy of the S0–S1 origin transition of indole which does not show the usual a1 and b1 progressions of cGW transitions.
Conclusion	We believe that this peak is due to an intermolecular charge transfer (CT) effect where after ionization the charge hops from indole to the cGW which has the lower IE.
Method	To record the R2PI spectrum of cGW the second harmonic of a Nd:YAG laser-pumped dye laser was tuned and the intensity of the parent ion monitored as a function of the wavelength.
Result	In the R2PI spectrum shown in Fig. 6 an intense first transition is followed by several transitions which have decreasing intensities with increasing energy.
Problem	The spacing is not regular which may be a hint for the presence of several conformers in the beam.
Result	UV/UV SHB spectroscopy proves (see section III.3) that this is not the case: All intense transitions correspond to one single conformer.
Background	In the following we make use of this information and assign transitions a1, b1, c1, d1 and presumably Y to vibrations of this conformer.
Background	A tentative conformer identification has been made in section IV.4.
Method	The R2PI spectrum of cGW shown in Fig. 6 covers 450 cm−1.
Result	No transitions were observed below 35 000 cm−1.
Problem	Above 35 300 cm−1 the indole vibrations and their many combination bands with vibrations a, b, c and d are expected.
Problem	The justification to confine our investigation to a range of 450 cm−1 is, that the four most stable calculated conformers have an attractive peptide ring-to-indole ring interaction and therefore should have similar S0–S1 origin energies.
Result	The S0–S1 origin transition of cGW is situated at 35 058 cm−1.
Background	It lies 180 cm−1 below the S0–S1 transition of indole34 and 178 cm−1 above the S0–S1 transition of 3-methylindole.35
Problem	The S1 energy in cGW is expected to be influenced by three parameters: (i) The electronic effect caused by the increase of the side chain of indole from 3-methylindole to cGW, (ii) the solvation of indole by the dipeptide ring and (iii) vibrational zero point energy effects.
Problem	Concerning (i) we expect in analogy to the alkylbenzene series (relative shift with respect to methylbenzene: +110 cm−1 for ethylbenzene, +105 cm−1 for propylbenzene, +99 cm−1 for butylbenzene36) a blue shift in comparison to 3-methylindole when increasing the chain size.
Problem	Concerning (ii): In a structure where the N–H group can interact with the indole π system (see most stable conformer 1 in Fig. 2a), a red shift of the S0–S1 transition is expected when the π system is excited, i.e. enlarged,18 because the N–H⋯π interaction is stabilized further.
Problem	However, (iii) this shift may be partially compensated by a change in the zero point vibrational energy if some vibrations increase strongly with the excitation to S1.
Background	Interestingly the origin of S1 in cGW lies 353 cm−1 above the S1 of the lowest and 163 cm−1 above the second conformer of linear NH2–G–W–COOH.5,6,8
Problem	The fact that our red-shift is not as strong as in linear peptides may be interpreted as follows: The peptide ring formation forces the functional groups CO and N–H of the peptide backbone into positions which do not allow ideal solvation of the indole ring.
Background	This lengthy discussion shows how difficult it is to interpret the tryptophan S0–S1 absorption in peptides with regard to structural changes of the environment.
Result	The relatively intense transitions to one quantum of the low-frequency modes a1 (30 cm−1) and b1 (52 cm−1) indicate some S0–S1 geometry change in the corresponding coordinates.
Result	Interestingly the transition a2 is not observed.
Result	Only the combination band a1b1 and tentatively a small transition b2 is observed.
Conclusion	Because the intense indole vibrations lie above 300 cm−1,34 the vibrations a, b, c (108 cm−1) and d (174 cm−1) are attributed to vibrations involving a relative motion between the two rings.
Result	For conformer 1a the frequency calculation of the neutral ground state gives the following vibrations below 90 cm−1: 21 cm−1 (global ring–ring bending), 39 cm−1 (ring–ring torsion along C1–C2), 51 cm−1 (boat to inverse boat motion in the peptide ring) and 59 cm−1 (higher order bending of the peptide ring, the angle at C0–C1–C2 and the indole ring).
Result	The frequency of 51 cm−1 for the ring inversion mode is an artefact of the harmonic potential approximation.
Result	Because of the small energy difference of 41 cm−1 between conformers 1a and 1b, at the energy of the first vibrational quantum the real potential width is much broader as assumed by the harmonic approximation.
Result	This should lead to a very low experimental frequency.
Problem	Excitation of this motion would, however, only be expected if the peptide ring would have a strong coupling to the indole ring, which is not expected.
Background	For a tentative assignment of the vibration in S1 we therefore only take the global ring–ring vibrations into account.
Background	The ring–ring interaction in the lowest-energetic conformer 1 is attractive.
Problem	One can expect that this attraction increases in the S1 state due to the increase of the size of the π system upon excitation.
Problem	As a consequence the frequencies of the ring–ring motions would increase.
Problem	Hence the S0 vibrations with the energy 21 cm−1 and 39 cm−1 might correspond to the S1 vibrations a1 and b1.
Problem	The type of these vibrational motions also agrees with the concept that the N–H⋯π interaction changes when exciting from S0 to S1.
Background	The S1 vibrations observed in the S0–S1 spectra of linear NH2–G–W–COOH are 24 cm−1 and 38 cm−1 and not too far off our values although the structures are very different.5,6,8
Problem	This indicates that the first two or three low-frequency vibrations of all similar-sized chromophore–tail molecules lie in the range of 20–50 cm−1.
Result	For conformer 2 for example the first three calculated S0 vibrational frequencies are with 26 cm−1, 41 cm−1 and 56 cm−1 very similar to those of conformer 1.
Result	Hence the S0 frequencies provide no arguments for conformer assignment.
Method	The S0–S1 R2PI spectrum was recorded with 5 bar Ar nozzle backpressure.
Result	Experiments with He and Ne as carrier gas resulted in less perfect vibrationally cooling.
Problem	To clarify the number of conformers in our molecular beam, we used R2PI UV/UV SHB.
Method	As mentioned in the experimental section, for the SHB a three-plate ion optics was mounted and the PE spectrometer used as a linTOF mass spectrometer.
Background	This setup was needed in order to remove and neutralize the prompt ions formed by the hole burning laser by applying a pulsed electric field.
Method	The spectrum was recorded by scanning the hole burning laser while the probe laser was set to the S0–S1 origin transition.
Result	Each time when the neutral ground state of the cGW conformer was depopulated by the hole burning laser a dip appeared in the probe laser parent ion signal.
Method	Note that with this scheme the transition moments of the individual peaks determine the depth of the SHB dip.
Result	In Fig. 7a the UV/UV SHB spectrum of cGW and in (b) for comparison the R2PI spectrum are shown.
Problem	We confined our investigation on the low-energetic section of the R2PI spectrum of cGW because (i) it contains the most intense transitions and (ii) the lowest-energetic four conformers are expected to lie in this range because of their similar peptide ring-to-indole ring interaction.
Result	In Fig. 7a all transitions except E show a strong hole burning effect and hence correspond to one conformer.
Problem	To investigate the hole burning for transition E in detail, but also to probe accidental overlap of conformer transitions, we carefully checked the degree of hole burning for each transition.
Result	Fig. 8 shows the degree of depletion of the probe signal by the hole burning laser for the first six transitions of the R2PI spectrum.
Method	The conditions have been the same as for Fig. 7a, except that now the hole burning laser is kept fix at transition A and the probe laser is scanned to the individual transitions A-F.
Background	With this scheme the depletion percentage should be the same for all transitions.
Method	The transition intensities recorded with the probe laser have been measured with the hole burning laser “off” (left trace) and “on” (right trace).
Method	For each “off” and “on” sequence of each transition 15 measurements (each averaged over 20 laser shots) are displayed.
Result	The hole burning reduces the probe signal by 50% for all transitions.
Result	This shows that no origin transition of a minor conformer component is accidentally covered by a vibronic transition of the most stable conformer.
Background	Note that theoretically more than 50% of the neutral ground state levels can be depopulated37.
Method	Photoelectron spectroscopy is in principle a double-resonance spectroscopy which is able to provide conformer- and state-selective radical cation spectra.
Problem	The initial hope was that we could sort out and assign the different conformers of cGW by PE spectroscopy alone.
Background	To achieve a resolution of 1 meV it is necessary to keep the electron kinetic energy below 200 meV.38
Method	To fulfil this condition a second frequency-doubled dye laser which is pumped by the second harmonic of the same Nd:YAG laser was used for ionization of excited S1 cGW.
Result	The R2PI PE spectra of cGW ionized via the vibrationless origin transition of S1 and the transition S1 a1 are shown in Fig. 9a and b.
Result	Both spectra show a broad ionization onset with no vibrational structure.
Conclusion	According to the calculations of the neutral and cation structures which show a great geometry change upon ionization (Fig. 4a) we believe that we do not observe the origin transition to the cation ground state, but excite to a dense higher excited vibrational manifold.
Background	Due to the smooth onset the IE can only be determined with an accuracy of ±3 meV.
Conclusion	The fact that the ionization onset via the S1a1 state is 6 cm−1 lower than when ionized via the S1 000 state (7.715 eV ±3 meV) is attributed to a better Franck–Condon factor to lower vibrational quantum numbers in the cation ground state.
Result	The PE spectrum of indole (Fig. 9c) taken in the same machine shows that we could resolve vibrational structures if their spacing were larger than 10 cm−1.
Background	The vibrations of the indole cation ground state have been recently investigated in detail by ZEKE spectroscopy39 and are not discussed here.
Method	The IE value of indole determined by ZEKE spectroscopy allows us to calibrate our indole and cGW PE spectra with an accuracy of ±2 meV.
Result	Unfortunately there is a background in the peptide PE spectra which stems from ionization of neutral fragments, preferentially indole, which is wavelength-dependent.
Result	It is small for the wavelength range of the first two S1 transitions of cGW, but increases as the closer the wavelength comes to the indole S0–S1 origin.
Problem	Without coincidence techniques it is in principle impossible to distinguish between fragment and peptide photoelectrons.
Method	We therefore confined our PE measurements to the first two S0–S1 transitions.
Result	In Fig. 9 the IE of 3-methylindole (7.514 eV40) is also marked.
Background	The IEs of substituted indoles should monotonically decrease with chain length (alkylbenzene41).
Result	The fact that with respect to 3-methylindole the IE of cGW is blue-shifted and the smooth onset indicates a relatively strong repulsive interaction between the two rings in the cation, as predicted by theory.
Result	Unfortunately the calculation of absolute IEs is relatively inaccurate and the measured IE corresponds neither directly to the calculated adiabatic IE nor the vertical IE.
Conclusion	The fact that conformer 1 has the highest IE of all conformers agrees well with the observed blue shift with respect to 3-methylindole.
Result	DFT predicts that one conformer (conformer 1) is predominantly stable and further favoured by entropy due to a low-energy peptide ring inversion mode.
Result	This is qualitatively in agreement with our R2PI and R2PI SHB spectra in which we attribute the most intense transition in the spectra to one conformer.
Result	In conformer 1 the N–H group of the dipeptide ring interacts with the π system.
Problem	This interaction is attractive and is expected to increase with S1 excitation.
Result	This is qualitatively confirmed by comparison to the calculated low-frequency S0 vibrations.
Conclusion	The fact that the experimentally observed conformer has an IE which is 195 meV higher than 3-methylindole shows that the solvation of the charge in the indole by the peptide ring is repulsive.
Conclusion	The most stable neutral conformer has the highest vertical IE of all 8 conformers and shows a very strong geometry change upon ionization.
Result	Hence conformer 1 fulfils all experimental findings.
Background	We admit that also conformer 2 and 3 follow the pattern of a attractive ring–ring interaction in the neutral cGW and a repulsive ring–ring interaction in the cationic cGW and that our arguments for the conformer assignment are very weak.
Background	For a confident conformer assignment it would be helpful to have several conformers in the molecular beam and be able to compare their IEs.
Background	Because the relative energies of calculated IEs are more accurate this would allow a more confident assignment.
Conclusion	In conclusion, we propose that conformer 1 is the cGW conformer we observe in our molecular beam.
Result	Our work shows that R2PI and the R(1 + 1′)PI PE spectra predominantly provide information about the structural changes in the nearest environment of the chromophore.
Conclusion	In cGW, however, the structural changes upon ionization are so great that with conventional high resolution PES a resolution of vibrational structures in the PE spectrum is impossible.
Conclusion	In general a similar neutral-to-cation Franck–Condon problem might exist for peptides or amino acids which have polar groups near the chromophore.
Conclusion	The IR/UV double resonance technique may provide additional clues for conformer identification and especially allow us to distinguish between conformers 1 (N–H⋯π interaction) and 2 (C–H⋯π interaction).

Problem	Enzymatic preparation of biotinylated naturally-occurring sialylglycan and its molecular recognition on a quartz-crystal microbalance
Problem	A biotinylated sialylglycan was prepared enzymatically by endo-M, and binding behavior of an SSA lectin was studied on a different coverage of a sialylglycan-immobilized 27 MHz quartz-crystal microbalance (QCM).
Background	Glycoconjugates such as glycolipids and glycoproteins on cell membranes play an important role of receptor to lectins, toxins and viruses in living systems, and are significantly related to the formation of organized systems such as cell adhesion, differentiation and morphogenesis.1,2
Background	In order to elucidate the function of glycoconjugates on the cell surface, it is necessary to design a suitable glyco-microarray.
Background	However, the immobilization of carbohydrates on a substrate or chip due to complexed structures of glycoconjugates is still unexploited compared with that for nucleic acids and proteins.3,4
Method	The simple way for this purpose is to immobilize directly naturally-occurring glycoconjugates such as glycoproteins and glycolipids on a substrate; however, this is not suitable for studying the role of the carbohydrate itself such as in molecular recognition.
Method	It was developed to immobilize only the synthetic sugar chains on a substrate by using chemical methods such as Diels–Alder reactions and activated esterification;5,6 however, it required complicated chemical treatments such as the selective protection and de-protection of certain functional hydroxyl groups.
Method	It is also common to achieve the immobilization through a Schiff's base linkage using an aldehyde group of a reducing end of a carbohydrate with an amine or hydrazide group;2 however, this method has a disadvantage of collapsing the reducing end.
Method	In this communication, we have prepared a biotinylated naturally-occurring sialylglycan by enzymatic transglycosylation of endo-β-acetylglucosaminidase from Mucor hiemalis, as shown in a step (a) of Fig. 1.
Method	The biotinylated sialylglycan was immobilized on an avidin-covered 27 MHz quartz-crystal microbalance (QCM) [step (b)].
Background	SSA lectin from Sambucus sieboldiana could recognize specifically the sialyl(α2-6)Gal/GalNAc sequence independent of the surface coverage (5–80%) of the carbohydrate [step (c)].
Method	The 27 MHz QCM is known as a mass measuring device, which has been calibrated as the 1 Hz frequency decrease corresponding to the 0.62 ng cm−2 mass increase on the QCM electrode in the aqueous solution as well as in the air phase.7–9
Method	The calibration of the 27 MHz QCM in the aqueous solution is described in the ESI, as compared with in the air phase.
Background	In the preparation of the biotinylated sialylglycan, we chose endo-β-N-acetyl glucosaminidase from Mucor hiemalis (EC 3.2.1.96) (endo-M) as an enzyme, which is a unique endoglycosidase for the hydrolysis of N,N′-diacetylchitobiosyl linkages in oligosaccharides bound to asparaginyl residues of various glycoproteins to leave one N-acetylglucosamine residue on the protein moieties10–12.Endo-M was found to hydrolyze not only the high mannose type but the complex type and the hybrid type of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides.12,13
Background	Furthermore, endo-M also showed transglycosylation activity.12–18
Method	Sialylglycopeptide (SGP) was separated from hen's egg yolk according to a previous method.18
Method	SGP (340 µg, 12 mM) was reacted with biotinylated GlcNAc (38 µg, 2.1 mM) in the presence of endo-M (30 mU in 30 µL) in 10 mM phosphate buffer, pH 6.0 at 37 °C [step (a) in Fig. 1].
Method	The biotinylated sialylglycan could be prepared in 55–60% yield after 5 h of reaction, and it was purified by HPLC (C18 column, eluent: CH3CN containing trifluoroacetic acid) and confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS (matrix: DHB, +Na+: 2619.4, calibrated with insulin).
Result	The yield was comparable to that of the transglycosylation to glucose and aliphatic alcohols as acceptors (30–50%).10
Method	On an Au electrode (4.9 mm2) of a 27 MHz QCM plate (8 mm diameter) of AffinixQ,4 NeutrAvidin was immobilized as a monolayer coverage through an amine coupling with dithiopropionic acid according to previous methods.7–9
Method	NeutrAvidin was chosen as a biotin-binding protein because carbohydrates on the avidin have been removed to reduce non-specific binding.
Result	When an aqueous solution of sialylglycan was injected to the NeutrAvidin-covered QCM plate, the frequency decreased (mass increased) depending on the concentration of sialylglycan (10–600 nM), and the immobilized amount could be controlled to be 5–60 ng cm−2 (1.9–23 pmol cm−2) on the QCM through biotin–avidin linkages [step (b) in Fig. 1].
Result	This corresponds to approximately 3–60% coverage of the NeutrAvidin surface on the QCM.
Result	In the presence of an excess amount of biotin in the solution, the biotinylated sialylglycan did not bind to the NeutrAvidin-immobilized QCM, and the non-biotinylated sialylglycan also hardly bound to the NeutrAvidin surface (see ESI Fig. S1).
Method	The state and orientation of the sialylglycan on the QCM chip was confirmed by binding of SSA lectin from Sambucus sieboldiana, which is known to recognize specifically the NeuAc(α2-6)Gal/GalNAc sequence of carbohydrate chains of glycoconjugates [step (c) in Fig. 1].19–21
Result	As shown in Fig. 2, when SSA lectin was injected to the sialylglycan surface (5–80% coverage) on the QCM, the frequency decreased (mass increased) with saturation behavior.
Result	SSA lectin bound weakly to the GlcNAc surface and NeutrAvidin surface due to the non-specific binding to the surface.
Conclusion	Thus, SSA lectin specifically recognizes the surface of NeuAc(α2-6)Gal/GalNAc of the immobilized sialylglycan.
Method	From saturation binding measurements, the maximum binding amount (Δmmax) and binding constant (Ka) could be obtained according to eqn. 1,19–21where [SSA]0 is the initial concentration of SSA lectin.
Method	Values for Δmmax and Ka were obtained at different immobilized amounts of sialylglycan on the QCM, and the results are shown in Fig. 3.
Result	Both Ka and Δmmax values were independent of the immobilized amount of sialylglycan (5–80% of surface coverage).
Result	Ka value was obtained as 2.5 ± 0.4 × 107 M−1, which is similar to Ka = 6.7 × 106 M−1 obtained for SSA lectin binding to the NeuAc(α2-6)Gal(β1-4)Glc moiety by a surface plasmon resonance method,19 and Ka = 9.5 × 106 M−1 for SSA lectin binding to glycolipid monolayers having NeuAc(α2-6)Gal headgroups.20
Result	The slightly low Ka value of 3.4 × 105 M−1 was obtained in the bulk solution.21
Result	The maximum binding amount of SSA lectin was estimated to be 410 ng cm−2 as a monolayer adsorption of globular proteins of Mw = 160 kDa, which is consistent with the obtained value of Δmmax = 480 ± 40 ng cm−2.
Conclusion	Thus, SSA lectin can recognize the NeuAc(α2-6)Gal(β1-4)GlcNAc sequence of sialylglycan independent of the surface coverage of 5–80%.
Result	SSA lectin is an A2B2-type tetramer and a sectional area is roughly calculated to be 16 nm2.
Result	This is very large relative to that of sialylglycan (0.6–0.8 nm2), and ca. 30 sialylglycan molecules are calculated to be covered under one SSA lectin binding.
Conclusion	This means that the existence of less than 3% of sialylglycan is enough to bind SSA lectin as a monolayer adsorption.
Problem	In conclusion, we can prepare the biotinylated naturally-occurring sialylglycan by enzymatic transglycosylation in a high yield, and the state or orientation of sialylglycan can be assayed by using a QCM technique.
Background	We believe that the combination of the biotinylation of naturally-occurring carbohydrates by the endo-M enzyme and the QCM chip assay will be very useful for the elucidation of roles of carbohydrates and studies on glycomics.

Problem	Non-photochemical spectral hole-burning mediated by water molecules in interligand pockets of [Cr(terpy)2]3+
Method	Low temperature fluorescence line-narrowing (FLN) and spectral hole-burning experiments (SHB) were performed in the 2E←4A2 spin–flip transition of [Cr(2,2′:6′,2″-terpyridine)2]3+ in frozen ethylene glycol/water (2 ∶ 1) and DMSO/water (2 ∶ 1) glasses.
Result	In the FLN experiments an average 2E splitting of 23 cm−1 is observed.
Conclusion	It is concluded that the interaction with water molecules in pockets provided by the ligands is most likely to be responsible for the relatively efficient non-photochemical hole-burning.
Conclusion	Fast spectral diffusion and spontaneous hole-filling prevent the observation of holes above 20 K. The FLN and SHB experiments were performed by using a diode laser.
Background	Electronic transitions are inhomogeneously broadened in condensed phases due to the variation of local fields.
Background	This broadening obscures valuable spectroscopic information at low temperatures.
Method	Often it can be overcome by the application of laser techniques such as fluorescence line narrowing (FLN) and spectral hole-burning (SHB).1–3
Background	Laser techniques facilitate investigations of subtle details of the electronic structure of molecules or molecular ions.3,4
Background	Non-photochemical spectral hole-burning is a general phenomenon in amorphous systems.
Background	It is based on some rearrangement of host–guest interactions upon photoexcitation, resulting in a slight shift of the transition frequency of the laser-selected subset of chromophores.
Background	Recently, metal complexes of the 2,2′:6′,2″-terpyridine ligand (abbreviated as terpy in the following) and its derivatives have obtained a great deal of attention.5
Background	The [Cr(terpy)2]3+ complex displays a very strong nephelauxetic effect in comparison with very similar systems such as [Cr(bpy)3]3+ (bpy = 2,2′-bipyridine).
Background	This follows from the 760 cm−1 shift of the R lines from ≈729 nm for [Cr(bpy)3]3+ to 772 nm for [Cr(terpy)2]3+.6
Background	The latter complex assumes a distorted meridional geometry, resulting in interligand pockets which facilitate a solvation of the chromium(iii) ion.7
Background	Efficient non-photochemical hole-burning processes can be expected due to the interaction of the solvent molecules with the terpy ligands.
Background	Terpy, like bpy, can stabilise the +2 oxidation state of chromium and hence its complexes have some potential as optical recording materials.
Problem	Here we present preliminary results of fluorescence line-narrowing (FLN) and spectral hole-burning (SHB) studies of the 2E←4A2 spin–flip transition in [Cr(terpy)2]3+.
Method	2,2′:6′,2″-terpyridine (terpy) was used as obtained from Aldrich.
Method	[Cr(terpy)2](PF6)3 was synthesised from CrCl3·6H2O and terpy following modified literature procedures.8,9
Method	CrCl3·6H2O was treated with zinc amalgam to form a solution of Cr(ii),8 and a portion of this solution was added to a deoxygenated solution of terpy in methanol.
Method	The resulting red–brown [Cr(terpy)2]2+ solution was bubbled through with oxygen to produce yellow [Cr(terpy)2]3+, which was then isolated as the hexafluorophosphate salt by treatment with NaPF6(aq).
Method	The chromium(iii) concentration in the ethylene glycol/water (2 ∶ 1) and DMSO/water (2 ∶ 1) glasses was ≈ 0.005 M. The samples were cooled to 2.5 K by a closed-cycle refrigerator (Janis/Sumitomo SHI-4.5).
Method	Non-selective luminescence spectra were excited by the 488-nm line of an Ar+ laser (Spectra Physics Stabilite 2017).
Method	The luminescence was dispersed by a Spex 1704 monochromator (1200 grooves mm−1 holographic grating) and detected by a cooled RCA31034 photomultiplier.
Method	After current–voltage conversion by a broadband preamplifier (Products-For-Research) the signal was processed by a lock-in-amplifier (EG&G 5210).
Method	The FLN spectra were excited by a current- and temperature-stabilised (Thorlabs LDC500 and TEC2000 controllers with TCLDM9 thermoelectric mounts) single frequency laser diode (Sharp LT025MD0).
Method	Two frequency and phase locked optical choppers (Thorlabs MC1000) with custom-made blades) were used in tandem with a phase shift of 180° for the resonant FLN experiments.
Method	The first chopper employed a blade with a duty cycle of about 20% to modulate the laser and the second chopper was used at the entrance slit of the monochromator.
Method	This experimental arrangement prevents laser light from entering the monochromator.
Method	In the hole-burning spectra the wavelength of the laser was kept constant for the burn period and subsequently scanned by modulating the current (triangle ramp).
Method	The hole-burning spectra were measured in excitation and the monochromator was used in zeroth order with a RG715 filter.
Method	To reject laser light, the tandem chopper configuration (see above) was employed.
Method	In the hole-burning spectra the output of the lock-in amplifier was averaged by a digital storage oscilloscope (Tektronix TDS210).
Method	The laser scans were calibrated by a spectrum analyser (Coherent model 240) with a free spectral range of 1.5 GHz.
Result	Fig. 1 shows the non-selectively excited luminescence spectra of [Cr(terpy)2]3+ in ethylene glycol/water (2 ∶ 1) and DMSO/water (2 ∶ 1) at 2.5 K in comparison with the resonantly narrowed luminescence spectrum in the DMSO/water (2 ∶ 1) glass at 20 K.
Method	The FLN spectrum was measured at 20 K to avoid hole-burning.
Result	The 4A2←2E emission is strongly red-shifted in [Cr(terpy)2]3+ due to a pronounced nephelauxetic effect (reduction of the Racah B parameter caused by electron delocalisation onto the ligands) and peaks at ≈772 nm.
Result	The inhomogeneous linewidth of the electronic origin (R1) is ≈90 cm−1 in both systems.
Result	This is comparable to the value reported for [Cr(bpy)3]3+.10
Result	In the FLN spectrum well defined vibrational sidelines are observed at –121, −206, −327, −209 and −455 cm−1.
Background	The laser predominantly excites chromophores via the R1 line.
Background	However, some molecular cations get excited via the R2 line.
Result	This leads to relatively broad R1-emission at longer wavelength (see inset of Fig. 1) since molecules excited into the R2 line will relax to R1 and energy levels of transition metal complexes in amorphous hosts are poorly correlated (the 2E splitting varies within the inhomogeneous distribution).10
Result	Note that the resonant line in the inset of Fig. 1 is truncated.
Result	The average 2E splitting is ≈ 23 cm−1 with a standard deviation of ≈ 15 cm−1.
Result	Thus the 2E splitting is better defined than in [Cr(bpy)3]3+.10
Conclusion	We partly assign this difference to the nominal D2d symmetry of the [Cr(terpy)2]3+ complex but particularly to the higher rigidity of terpy compared to bpy.
Conclusion	We have found that the 2E splitting in trigonal complexes may vary drastically in amorphous systems due to low symmetry perturbations.10
Result	At 2.5 K the excited state lifetime is 584 ± 1 µs in the ethylene glycol/water glass and 694 ± 1 µs in nafion.
Conclusion	This indicates that solvent molecules are present in the interligand pockets providing an efficient pathway for the non-radiative deactivation of the 2E state by direct energy transfer to high frequency acceptor modes.11
Conclusion	It is important to realize that this electronic to vibrational energy transfer is facilitated by the coincidence of the luminescence of [Cr(terpy)2]3+ with the absorption spectrum of the fourth overtones of O–H and C–H stretch frequencies.
Result	Fig. 2 presents a ≈30% deep spectral hole burnt into the 2E←4A2 transition of [Cr(terpy)2]3+ in ethylene glycol/water (2 ∶ 1).
Result	The initial hole-burning efficiency is estimated to be ≈0.3%.
Conclusion	We tentatively assign this relatively efficient hole-burning process to rearrangements of solvent molecules in the interligand pockets.
Result	The holewidth is strongly dependent on the hole depth.12
Result	For example, a 10% deep hole has a width of 400 MHz compared to the 780-MHz width of the 30% hole.
Result	Taking into account the 70-MHz laser linewidth an upper limit of an effective homogeneous linewidth Γh of 130 MHz results by using eqn. (1).Γhole = 2Γh + 2ΓlaserThis is orders of magnitude larger than the lifetime-limited linewidth of Γh = 1/2πT1 (T1 is the excited state lifetime).3
Conclusion	Fast spectral diffusion caused by rearrangements of host–guest interactions, and electronic and nuclear spin fluctuations must be responsible for the observed holewidth.
Conclusion	For example, the indirect electronic spin–spin interactions may contribute significantly to the holewidth for the concentration used in the present experiment.
Conclusion	Furthermore, superhyperfine interactions with the proton spins of the water molecules in the interligand pockets provides another mechanism for the broadening.
Background	Sample heating can be excluded since the optical density at the laser frequency is very low (<0.001) and relatively low laser powers were used.
Result	Relatively fast spontaneous hole-filling occurs.
Result	For example, the hole area of an initially 20% deep spectral hole decreases by 30% in 500 s.
Result	Spectral holes cannot be burnt at temperatures above 20 K. These observations are indicative of a non-photochemical hole-burning mechanism and two-level systems with relatively low activation barriers enabling fast spontaneous hole-filling at higher temperatures.1–3
Result	If deep spectral holes in the [Cr(terpy)2]3+/ethylene glycol/water system are cycled from 2.5 to 20 to 2.5 K over 10 minutes a significant increase of the holewidth is observed (0.8 to 2.55 GHz).
Conclusion	This is a direct indication of thermally activated spectral diffusion by the dynamic rearrangement of host–guest interactions.
Background	It has been suggested that in frozen solutions the parameters D and E of the spin Hamiltonian of the 4A2 ground state are subject to a statistical distribution caused by the solvent molecules in the interligand pockets.13
Conclusion	This idea is supported by the present SHB experiments: no distinct sideholes are measurable in the range of the reported zero field splitting, 0.28–0.34 cm−1, of [Co(terpy)2](ClO4)2·2.5H2O ∶ Cr(iii).
Problem	We have applied an inexpensive laser diode in FLN and SHB studies of a coordination compound in an amorphous host.
Result	The [Cr(terpy)2]3+ system shows a relatively high efficiency of the non-photochemical hole-burning process.
Conclusion	We tentatively assign this to the interaction of solvent molecules in interligand pockets. Further investigations of the solvent–ligand interactions by laser techniques and deuteration effects are currently undertaken.

Problem	“Smart” mobile affinity matrix for microfluidic immunoassays
Background	There is a current need for simple methods for immobilizing biomolecules within microfluidic channels.
Conclusion	Here, a technique is reported for reversibly immobilizing immunoassay components in a channel zone that can be simply controlled by integrated heating elements.
Method	Latex beads were modified with the temperature-responsive polymer poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAAm) and co-modified with biotinylated poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG).
Method	PNIPAAm undergoes a hydrophilic-to-hydrophobic transition when the temperature is raised above the lower critical solution temperature (LCST) (∼28 °C in the solutions used here).
Method	This reversible transition drives the aggregation and dis-aggregation of the modified beads in heated zones within poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) microchannels.
Method	Biotinylated monoclonal antibodies for the drug digoxin were bound via streptavidin to the biotin-PEG-coated beads.
Method	These antibody-functionalized beads were then reversibly immobilized by aggregation and hydrophobic adhesion to the surface of PET microfluidic channels in response to a thermal stimulus.
Result	The antibodies on the beads immobilized in the channel were shown to bind digoxin and a competitor fluorescent ligand from a flow stream in a quantitative competitive assay format that reported the digoxin concentration.
Result	The antibodies could be replenished for each immunoassay trial, using the reversible, temperature-controlled immobilization process.
Conclusion	This technique allows reagent immobilization immediately prior to an analytical procedure, following the removal of previously utilized beads, guaranteeing fresh and active immobilized biomolecules.
Conclusion	Furthermore, it provides a simple approach to multiplexing through the simultaneous or sequential injection of different antibody-coated bead species, potentially at multiple sites in the integrated device channels.
Background	Many important bioanalytical techniques require an immobilized, biochemically active phase.
Method	Such techniques include affinity chromatography, microtiter plate-based immunoassays, genomic and proteomic microarray analysis,1,2 and micro/nanobead-based assays and separation processes.
Method	The translation of equivalent strategies to the microfluidic environment has relied on three broad categories of biomolecular immobilization techniques: surface modification of microfluidic channel walls,3-8 packing of microfluidic channels with biomolecule-bearing beads,9-14 and packing of microfluidic channels with biomolecule-bearing porous slabs.15,16
Method	A disadvantage which most current microfluidic immobilization systems share is their inherent irreversibility.
Method	Once a channel is packed with beads or a monolithic polymer, or a channel surface has been chemically modified, there is no simple way for the device end user to remove or renew the immobilized molecule, or to add a new immobilized molecule.
Method	This limits the flexibility of device manufacturing, since each device must be manufactured with a specific immobilized biochemistry for a specific application.
Method	It also limits device lifetime, both on the shelf and in use, since biomolecules are often fragile, and non-renewable immobilized molecules will eventually lose activity.
Method	Several researchers have demonstrated heterogeneous microfluidic immunoassays based on immobilized antibodies.3,6,12
Method	Microfluidic bioanalytical assays that operate without an immobilized phase have also been demonstrated.
Method	Such approaches include an assay based on the rate of diffusion of antibody-antigen complexes in solution17,18 and a technique for maintaining beads in place in a recirculating flow stream without permanently immobilizing them.19
Conclusion	The work presented here demonstrates the application of a reversible bead immobilization technique which we have recently described20 for the immobilization of immunoassay reagents within a microfluidic channel in an on-demand, spatially and temporally controlled, and reversible fashion.
Method	The digoxin antibody–antigen couple was used as a model competitive immunoassay system21-24 to show how temperature-responsive bioanalytical beads can be utilized to couple the capture and release of target analytes for quantitative analysis.
Method	Digoxin and the biotinylated monoclonal murine anti-digoxin IgG (clone DI-22) were obtained from Sigma (St. Louis, MO).
Method	BODIPY® FL digoxigenin was obtained from Molecular Probes (Eugene, OR).
Method	Wild-type streptavidin was expressed and purified according to a previously published protocol.25
Method	The N-hydroxysuccinimidyl ester of poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (NHS-PNIPAAm) was synthesized according to a previously published protocol.26
Method	100 nm diameter Polybead® Amino Microspheres from Polysciences (Warrington, PA) were co-modified with PNIPAAm and 3.4 kDa poly(ethylene glycol)–biotin (PEG-b) (Shearwater Corporation, Huntsville, AL) as previously described.20
Method	PET sheets used in the fabrication of the microfluidic device were obtained from Fralock, Inc. (San Carlos, CA).
Method	The antibody-bearing beads used in this experiment are described schematically in Fig. 1a.
Method	PNIPAAm and PEG-b doubly modified beads were incubated 15 minutes with equimolar (relative to immobilized biotin groups) quantities of streptavidin in pH 7.6 phosphate buffered saline (PBS, 50 mM phosphate, 5 mM NaCl).
Method	To remove any unbound streptavidin, the beads were centrifuged at 16 600g for 15 minutes at 4 °C.
Method	The supernatant was removed and the beads were resuspended in pH 7.6 PBS.
Method	This suspension was vortexed and agitated at 4 °C for 2 hours to assure that no bead aggregates remained.
Method	Biotinylated anti-digoxin IgG was then loaded onto the beads by adding it to the streptavidin-coated bead suspension at a 20-fold molar excess of streptavidin (assuming streptavidin tetramers bound at a 1 : 1 stoichiometry to biotin moieties in the first step).
Method	The bead suspension injected into the microfluidic channel consisted of 0.10 wt% doubly modified b-PEG/PNIPAAm beads loaded with streptavidin and anti-digoxin IgG, 0.40 wt% singly modified PNIPAAm beads, and 2.5 mg mL−1 free PNIPAAm in pH 7.6 PBS.
Method	The singly modified PNIPAAm beads and free PNIPAAm were added to decrease the concentration of doubly modified beads required to form a continuous adherent network on the channel walls, and to thereby conserve protein reagents.
Method	The suspension was degassed by agitation under vacuum for approximately five minutes immediately prior to use.
Method	Experiments took place in what was described in our previous publication as a “type A” channel.20
Method	Briefly, the device was constructed from stacked layers of laser-machined PET.
Method	It consisted of a primary channel with one input port and one output port, with dimensions of 54 mm × 4 mm (at the widest point in the channel) × 300 µm.
Method	A small injection channel for introducing smart bead suspension led into the primary channel.
Method	Temperature control was accomplished via incorporation of a thin-film Therma-Clear™ heater and a HeaterStat™ electronic feedback controller (both from Minco, Minneapolis, MN).
Method	When the heater was activated, the controller maintained the temperature in a 20 mm-long region of the channel between 33 and 37 °C (this range of temperatures reflects the precision of the controller).
Method	In experiments, the heater was activated to trigger the bead aggregation caused by hydrophilic-to-hydrophobic PNIPAAm phase transition and later deactivated to reverse that process.
Method	The assembled device was mounted in a microfluidic manifold incorporating an aluminium pressure plate and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) gaskets to seal the input and output ports of the device to polyether ether ketone (PEEK) tubing.
Method	Computer-controlled syringe pumps (Kloehn Co., Ltd., Las Vegas, NV) were used to drive the flow through the devices, as described in our previous publication20.
Method	The immunoassay protocol is described schematically in Fig. 1b.
Method	Two hundred microlitres of the mixed bead suspension were injected via the bead injection channel, connected by the manifold to a short length of PEEK tubing.
Method	After bead injection, this tubing was closed off with a standard HPLC tubing valve, preventing flow through the injection channel.
Method	The input port of the primary channel was connected to the output of a flow injection valve that allowed the operator to select between two flow sources: a 0.3 mL sample loop and a 1.5 mL sample loop.
Method	The 1.5 mL sample loop was filled with degassed PBS.
Method	The 0.3 mL sample loop contained BODIPY® FL digoxigenin in degassed PBS at a concentration of 2.5 µM mixed with digoxin at a concentration of 0, 1.28, 2.56, or 12.8 µM.
Method	The heater was activated in the absence of flow for 10 minutes.
Method	The pumps were then activated, pushing buffer from the 1.5 mL sample loop through the system at a rate of 20 µL min−1.
Method	Fluid flowing through the device was captured at the exit of the manifold output tubing in 50 µL aliquots.
Method	After 2.5 minutes of buffer wash, the injection valve was switched to the 0.3 mL sample loop, allowing the labeled digoxigenin/digoxin sample to flow into the device.
Method	The valve was switched back to the buffer-containing sample loop after 1.25 minutes, making the volume of the digoxigenin/digoxin sample 25 µL.
Method	After allowing the sample to bind and flow-through to be washed out (27.5 minutes after the initiation of flow), the heater was deactivated while the flow was maintained at a constant rate.
Method	Aliquots were collected for an additional 15 minutes as the aggregated beads dissolved.
Method	The output aliquots were then diluted to 500 µL in deionized water and the fluorescence of each sample was measured on a Perkin Elmer LS50B fluorescence spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer Instruments, Inc., Shelton, CT), with excitation of the BODIPY fluorophore at 492 nm and emission at 511 nm.
Method	Experiments were performed in triplicate for each concentration investigated.
Method	The presence of beads in the output samples introduced a scattering signal in the fluorescence measurements.
Method	This signal made the measured fluorescence higher than it would be in a sample containing no beads.
Method	To correct for this effect, a set of samples containing a range of bead concentrations (determined by the OD600 of the samples) but no fluorescent species were analyzed in the fluorescence spectrophotometer.
Method	This analysis yielded a linear relationship between bead concentration and scattered fluorescent signal.
Method	For each immunoassay sample, the OD600 was measured and this linear relationship was used to determine what scattering signal to subtract from the measured fluorescence signal.
Method	The bioanalytical system described in this study utilizes the temperature-responsive polymer poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) (PNIPAAm) to control the aggregation and “stickiness” of biofunctionalized beads.
Method	PNIPAAm is a “smart” polymer that undergoes a hydrophilic–hydrophobic phase transition at temperatures above the lower critical solution temperature of approximately 28 °C in aqueous buffer.27
Method	The phase transition is accompanied by aggregation and precipitation of PNIPAAm molecules.
Background	Several authors have reviewed the application of this property to the fields of biotechnology and biomedicine.28-31
Background	We have previously shown that when PNIPAAm-coated latex beads are also modified with a biotin–PEG moiety, they can be used to form a temperature-sensitive microfluidic chromatographic resin capable of separating the biotin-binding protein streptavidin from a flow stream.20
Problem	This system has been further developed here to demonstrate its capacity to provide the key elements of an in-channel immunoassay.
Problem	The injectable immunoassay system is described schematically in Fig. 1.
Method	Fig. 1a is a diagram of the antibody-bearing beads.
Method	The 100 nm amine-coated polystyrene latex beads were modified using NHS-ester chemistry with two separate species: 11 kDa PNIPAAm and 3.4 kDa biotin-PEG.
Result	Approximately 40% of the amine groups on each bead (ca. 20 000 per bead) were biotinylated, as measured by the 2-(4′-hydroxyazobenzene) benzoic acid (HABA) assay.32
Method	Streptavidin was then complexed to the beads, followed by complexation of the biotinylated anti-digoxin IgG to the free streptavidin binding sites.
Method	The digoxin/digoxigenin antigen system was used as a model for demonstrating the key steps of a competitive immunoassay.
Method	A schematic of the model protocol is provided in Fig. 1b.
Method	The stimuli-responsive beads displaying the anti-digoxin antibody (step 1) were heated above the LCST of the grafted PNIPAAm to immobilize the aggregated bead network on the channel surface in the heated region (step 2).
Method	Channel temperature control was accomplished using a system that maintained the channel temperature between 33 and 37 °C when activated, as determined by placing a thermocouple in the channel under no-flow conditions.
Method	Though the temperature cannot be expected to be uniform throughout the channel, PNIPAAm phase transition occurs over a very narrow temperature range, and the polymer can be expected to be in its hydrophobic phase so long as the local temperature is above ∼28 °C under these buffer conditions.
Method	Following heating and wash through of unbound beads (step 3), a sample containing both the target antigen molecule (digoxin) and a fluorescently labeled antigen analog (BODIPY® FL digoxigenin) was flowed through the channel (steps 4 and 5).
Method	A constant concentration of the labeled digoxigenin was used in all experiments.
Method	Since the two species in the sample compete for antibody binding, the amount of labeled digoxigenin that binds depends on the concentration of target digoxin in the sample.
Method	The concentration of digoxin in a given sample can therefore be determined by tracking the amount of antibody-bound fluorescent digoxigenin.
Method	After the sample had been allowed to flow through the channel, the heater was deactivated, lowering the channel temperature below the PNIPAAm LCST and causing the beads to disaggregate and leave with the flow stream (step 6).
Method	Any antibody-bound digoxin or digoxigenin molecules left the channel with these beads.
Method	Throughout this procedure, 50 µL aliquots were collected at the channel output for subsequent fluorescence analysis.
Result	The successful competitive capture of digoxin and digoxigenin is shown in Fig. 2.
Method	The fluorescent intensities of the system output fractions are given as fractions of total fluorescence measured over the course of the experiment.
Method	The zero point on the x-axis corresponds to the initiation of pump-driven flow, after bead aggregation and adhesion had been allowed to take place in the heated channel.
Result	The initially elevated fluorescence values at the 50 and 100 µL points are due to non-adherent beads being washed out of the channel.
Background	Previous work has shown that approximately 50% of the thermally immobilized bead suspension adheres to the channel walls under flow conditions.20
Result	Given the ratio of antibody loading on the beads, this implies that approximately 600 picomoles of antibody are available on the channel surfaces for binding to digoxin/digoxigenin.
Result	This is approximately a ten-fold excess relative to the total amount of labeled digoxigenin injected.
Result	The peaks that begin at 250 µL represent unbound BODIPY® FL digoxigenin flowing past the immobilized antibodies and out of the channel.
Result	At the 550 µL point, the heater was deactivated, lowering the temperature in the channel and resulting in the dissolution of the adherent bead matrix.
Result	The beads were washed out of the channel, along with the bound fractions of digoxin and BODIPY® FL digoxigenin.
Background	Previous work has shown the process of bead release upon decrease in channel temperature to be near 100% efficient.20
Result	The fluorescence signal from the bound digoxigenin is observed as the peak beginning at the 600 µL point.
Result	As digoxin concentration increases, the flowthrough peak at 250 µL becomes larger while the elution peak at 600 µL becomes correspondingly smaller.
Result	This change is due to digoxin competition with fluorescent digoxigenin for binding to the immobilized antibodies.
Result	As less labeled digoxigenin binds the beads, more passes through the channel with the flowthrough peak (labeled A on Fig. 2), and less flows out with the beads in the elution peak (B).
Result	The errors at each individual point in Fig. 2 make it difficult to distinguish between digoxin concentrations.
Result	However, by considering total peak area, varying digoxin concentrations can be easily discriminated, as shown in Fig. 3.
Result	The plot in Fig. 3a corresponds to the flowthrough peak, while Fig. 3b corresponds to the elution peak.
Method	Peak areas were obtained by simply integrating the peaks shown in Fig. 2, after drawing straight lines between the data points.
Method	The flowthrough peak was integrated from the 200 µL point to the 450 µL point, while the elution peak was integrated from the 550 µL point to the 700 µL point.
Result	While the 1.28 and 2.56 µM points remain statistically indistinguishable in both plots, the 0 and 12.8 µM points are distinguishable from all other points.
Result	In this model device format, concentrations of digoxin as low as 1.28 µM could be reliably determined and varying concentrations of digoxin ranging over an order of magnitude could be distinguished.
Result	The flowthrough peak data were sufficient to provide the full calibration curve throughout this digoxin concentration range.
Conclusion	These results demonstrate that this system is capable of reporting the competitive binding and measurement of a target antigen in a format that can conveniently provide a wide range of concentration dependences.
Conclusion	Because the fluorescence measurements were made on arbitrary flow-through aliquots (related to the channel dimensions and volumes) that were subsequently diluted to accommodate measurements in a standard benchtop fluorometer, the particular accessible range of digoxin concentrations reported in this study does not represent the intrinsic sensitivity of this system.
Conclusion	That sensitivity will ultimately be a function of the device and detection design, and on-chip detection schemes and optical probes that minimize dilution and maximize signal should provide particularly important sensitivity enhancements.
Conclusion	Finally, it is important to note that since the process of bead adhesion to the channel wall is not stoichiometric, the amount of immobilized antibody is expected to vary slightly with each trial.
Conclusion	This imprecision results in the relatively large error bars seen in Fig. 2.
Conclusion	However, the data presented in Fig. 3 demonstrate that meaningful results can be extracted from this platform even in light of the variations in amount of antibody immobilized.
Result	The reversible biomolecular immobilization facilitated by this technique allowed for all experiments to be performed in a single device over a period of several weeks with a fresh immobilized antibody substrate for each new experiment.
Method	Loading this substrate took only ten minutes, and it was not necessary to remove the device from the fluidic manifold connecting it to the sample delivery system.
Conclusion	This platform is completely general in that any molecule that can be biotinylated or otherwise bound to the surface of a latex bead (e.g. enzymes, ligands, oligonucleotides) can be immobilized in microfluidic channels via this technology.
Conclusion	Finally, the precise and reversible temperature-responsive nature of the smart polymer gives engineers a novel means of control for microfluidic processes, since the spatial distribution of immobilized molecules in a microfluidic device can be controlled merely by controlling the temperature at various locations in the device.

Problem	Ground state and electronic spectrum of Cu(ii) and Cu(iii) complexes of N,N′-1,2-phenylenebis-2-mercaptoacetamide
Problem	The electronic structure and the UV-vis spectrum of reduced and oxidized model systems of the N,N′-1,2-phenylenebis(2-mercapto-2-methylpropionamide) copper complex have been studied using a multiconfigurational quantum chemical method (CASSCF/CASPT2).
Result	The bonds between Cu and the two sulfur ligand atoms have a large covalent character in the oxidized Cu(iii) form.
Result	As a result of the increased covalency, the effective charge on the Cu atom is actually smaller in the oxidized form.
Conclusion	The electronic spectrum for both oxidation states of the complex is in agreement with the experiment for excitation energies and intensities showing that the theoretical description of the electronic structure is essentially correct.
Result	All bands that involve excitations from either Cu or S localized orbitals to the empty or half empty CuS antibonding orbital have been characterized.
Background	The N,N′-1,2-phenylenebis(2-mercapto-2-methylpropionamide) complexes of Cu(ii) and Cu(iii) (Cuphmi), containing the N2S2 chelating group in a square-planar coordination environment, are interesting models of copper proteins.1,2
Background	For example, the high affinity for copper and the N2S2 coordination environment are peculiar properties of the active site of methanobactin,3 a copper acquisition protein.
Background	Hanss and Krüger obtained the X-ray crystal structure of both the oxidized and reduced forms of Cuphmi and also measured the electronic spectrum in acetonitrile solution.2
Background	The X-ray absorption (XAS) spectra of Cu(iii)phmi and Cu(ii)phmi in solid phase have recently been recorded and analyzed.4
Background	The structures of the Cu(ii) and Cu(iii) ionic complexes were obtained using the B3LYP density functional method, with a 6-31G(d,p) basis set, considering different possible spin multiplicities.4
Background	The shape of the experimental XAS K-edge region was rationalized in the frame of an orbital approximation, employing HF molecular orbital eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the optimized DFT structures.
Background	The singlet state of the Cu(iii) complex was shown to be more stable than the triplet state in agreement with the absence of an experimental ESR signal for the oxidized complex.2
Background	A XAS study on similar Cu(ii) and Cu(iii) complexes5 showed that the shape of the corresponding K-edge region depends on the electronic properties and the coordination geometry of the chelating ligand.
Background	Moreover, a shift of about 2 eV was observed in the assigned resonances when going from Cu(ii) to Cu(iii) ions.
Background	A Cu(iii) complex with six coordinated sulfur atoms in an octahedral geometry has been characterized, confirming a d8 electron configuration of Cu(iii) with a triplet spin state,6 in contrast to the situation in Cu(iii)phmi.
Problem	In order to gain a better understanding of the electronic properties of these interesting molecules, we present here results from a theoretical study of the electronic structure of Cu(iii)phmi and Cu(ii)phmi models in the ground and lower excited states originating from excitations within the 3d shell or from the sulfur lone pair orbitals to the empty (or half empty) 3d orbital.
Background	The information obtained can be used to obtain a better understanding of the nature of the XAS K-edge resonances and the present study will be extended to an explicit calculation of the XAS resonances in a forthcoming publication.
Method	Wave functions and energies have been generated using the complete active space (CAS) SCF method7 with dynamic correlation added using second order perturbation theory (CASPT2).8,9
Method	It has been shown recently in a series of papers that this approach, which includes scalar relativistic effects, is to date among the most accurate methodologies that can be used to obtain detailed information on the electronic structure of the ground and low-lying excited states of transition metal complexes.
Background	The same approach has been used previously to study the electronic spectrum of a number of blue copper proteins where one of the ligands is cysteine.10–13
Background	That comprehensive investigation resulted in a paradigm shift for the explanation of the origin of the specific structural characteristics of the blue copper proteins.
Background	The earlier ideas were based on the assumption of a strained protein structure that forced the specific (tetrahedral) structure of the active Cu(ii) site.
Background	It was shown in the theoretical work that it is the special nature of the copper sulfur bond that favors a tetrahedral structure instead of the normal tetragonal arrangement of the ligand.
Background	It is known that the copper sulfur bond is strong and has a dominating covalent character with the bonding and antibonding orbitals delocalized over both centers.
Background	As a result, the metal–ligand bonding in blue copper proteins can occur either through the sulphur σ lone pair orbital, yielding a tetragonal coordination site, or through the sulphur π lone pair orbital, in this case stabilizing a tetrahedral active center.
Background	The most prominent spectral features arise from excitations to the half-filled (Cu(ii)) or empty (Cu(iii)) antibonding Cu–S orbital from either the 3d-orbitals, from the sulfur lone pair orbitals, or from the bonding Cu–S orbital.
Background	The latter transition is supposed to give rise to the strongest band in the low energy part of the electronic spectrum.
Background	It is traditional to classify these transitions as either d–d or ligand to metal charge transfer (LMCT).
Background	However, considering the delocalized nature of the antibonding Cu–S orbital, this picture is not accurate.
Background	All these transitions contain some charge transfer character, which is special for the thiolate ligand.
Background	We shall return to this point in the analysis of the excited states.
Method	Two sets of calculations were performed at CASPT2 level8,9 on the structure of the copper model complexes with the ligand N,N′-1,2-phenylenebis-2-mercaptoacetamide, which we call Cuphma: one using the averaged C2v geometry obtained from the X-ray structure of the Cuphmi complexes2 and one using the fully optimized geometry of Cuphmi calculated at unrestricted B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) DFT level.
Method	The singlet and the triplet states of Cu(iii)phmi and the doublet state of Cu(ii)phmi were considered, by imposing the C2v symmetry (see Table 1).
Method	The reason of this choice is that the important Cu–S bond distance is quite different in the two cases, as can be seen in Table 1, while the transition energies strongly depend on this distance, because the energy separation between the bonding and antibonding Cu–S orbitals is strongly linked to it.
Background	We have shown10 that DFT gives a Cu–S bond which is too long by about 0.08 Å in the active site of plastocyanin.
Method	In the present case, it becomes more difficult to optimize this bond distance using the CASPT2 method,10 due to the strong coupling to other bonds in the chelating ligand system.
Problem	On the other hand, the experimental geometry of the small title complexes can be expected to be accurate in contrast to the case of a protein.
Method	For the same reason, the DFT optimized geometry of Cuphma (see Table 1) was not used in the CASPT2 calculations.
Method	In Cuphma the methyl groups on the atom C1 are replaced by hydrogen atoms (cf. Fig. 1).
Method	Such a simplification only influences excited states to a small extent originating from excitations in the active site region.
Background	While the calculations have been performed on the isolated Cu(iii)phma1− and Cu(ii)phma2− ions, the experimental spectrum of Cuphmi was measured in acetonitrile solution.2
Background	Clearly, the transition energies are shifted by the solvent.
Background	A rough estimate could be obtained from the relative dipole moments in the ground and excited states, but it is also known that acetonitrile molecules are very weakly coordinated to the axial sites of the square planar copper environment.1
Method	One of the crucial steps in the calculation is the choice of the active orbitals.
Method	We are interested in transitions occurring in the active site, that is, within the metal 3d-orbitals and from the sulfur 3p-orbitals to the metal.
Method	So we need to consider the five 3d- and four S3p-orbitals with 17 (16 for Cu(iii)) active electrons.
Method	We also need to account for the strong radial correlation effects in the localized 3d-orbitals by adding a second set of orbitals, 3d′ (the so called double shell effect.14)
Method	These extra active orbitals are particularly important for excitations where the number of d electrons change.
Method	Here we need four such orbitals, which yields a total active space of 13 orbitals divided in 5, 2, 3, 3, respectively in the four representations of the C2v point group, a1, b2, b1, a2.
Method	Basis sets of the Atomic Natural Orbital (ANO) type were used for all atoms.
Method	Such basis sets have newly been developed that include scalar relativistic effects and correlation of the semi-core electrons,15 for example the 3p electrons on the Cu atom.
Method	The size of the basis sets were: Cu: 6s5p3d2f, S: 5s4p2d, C,N,O: 4s3p1d, and H: 2s1p.
Method	The selected basis sets contain enough diffuse functions to ensure a good quality in the calculation of the oscillator strengths.
Method	These have been computed at CASSCF level of theory.
Method	All calculations have been performed with the MOLCAS-6.0 quantum chemistry software16.
Problem	We first give an overall description of the electronic structure of the region around the metal atom.
Result	In Table 1 it is seen that the Cu–S distance in the optimized geometry of Cuphmi is larger than the one observed experimentally, of about 0.03 and 0.05 Å for oxidized and reduced forms, respectively.
Result	This distance further increases by 0.04 and 0.08 Å in the optimized geometry of Cuphma.
Conclusion	While the first structural distortion could be associated both to solid state packing effects and to the tendency of DFT methods in predicting larger bond lengths,10 the one observed in Cuphma is to be attributable also to the simplification of the ligand model.
Method	For this reason we have performed our calculations using the coordinates of Cuphmi.
Result	The characteristic features of the Cu–S bonding and antibonding (CuS*) orbitals are presented in Fig. 2.
Result	This figure shows the orbital pair for both Cu(ii)phma and Cu(iii)phma.
Problem	In the oxidized form we would expect to find a stronger covalent character of the bond and this is also what the figure illustrates.
Result	Actually, we have an almost equal distribution of the electron pair over all three centers in the bonding orbital.
Result	The orbital has b2 symmetry and thus combines the antisymmetric in plane sulfur lone-pair orbital with the metal 3dxy orbital to form the three center bond.
Result	The symmetric lone-pair combination (of a1 symmetry) does not interact strongly with the metal center and remains localized on the sulfur atoms.
Result	The b2 orbital is doubly occupied in both complex ions.
Result	The antibonding orbital is singly occupied in the reduced form.
Conclusion	In the oxidized form we find 0.14 electrons in this orbital, showing that there is a strong static correlation effect in the Cu–S bond, which is typical for weak covalent bonds.
Result	It is obvious from the electronic structure that the ground state of the oxidized form of the complex should be a singlet state.
Result	In fact, the reduced form has the odd electron in the CuS* orbital and can be easily removed.
Result	The presence of an electron in an antibonding orbital explains the longer CuS bond distance in Cu(ii)phmi compared to that observed in Cu(iii)phmi (see Table 1).
Result	We have computed the energy difference between the lowest singlet, 1A1, and triplet, 3A2, states of Cu(iii)phma and found it to be close to 25 000 cm−1 (3.09 eV), thus showing that the ground state is a singlet.
Result	The spin–density in Cu(ii)phma is almost entirely localized on the copper ion (92%) with most of the remaining density actually located on the nitrogen atoms of the ligand.
Result	The localization of the spin is achieved by mixing two configurations, one dominating (weight 83%) with the spin in the antibonding orbital and one (weight 13%) with the spin in the bonding orbital.
Result	The wave function in the ground state of Cu(iii)phma is dominated by two single closed shell configurations, one with the bonding Cu–S orbital occupied (weight 91%) and one doubly excited configuration where the corresponding antibonding orbital is doubly occupied (weight 6%).
Conclusion	This is typical for the formation of a comparably weak covalent bond, in this case between the 3dxy Cu orbital and the antisymmetric combination of the in-plane sulfur lone pair orbitals (see Fig. 2).
Result	The electronic spectrum of Cu(ii)phma is characterized in the low energy region by excitations into the half empty CuS* orbital (lower right orbital in Fig. 2) from the filled 3d shells and from the sulfur 3p lone pair orbitals.
Result	Computed energies are shown in Table 2.
Result	The four first excited states correspond to the ligand field transitions resulting in a hole in one of the four localized 3d orbitals.
Result	The two transitions with the largest oscillator strengths can be assigned to the first two bands found in the experimental spectrum.
Result	Then three transitions follow that are characterized as LMCT from the sulfur lone pair orbitals to the CuS* orbital.
Result	Two of them have appreciable intensity.
Result	The most intense band (with a peak at 32 258 cm−1) corresponds to excitation from the symmetric in-plane sulfur 3p orbital.
Result	As expected, we find this transition at a lower energy than the one coming from the antisymmetric 3p combination, which is stabilized by the interaction with the Cu 3dxy orbital.
Conclusion	The agreement with the four bands found in the experimental spectrum is satisfactory, but we would like to point out that the transition energies depend strongly on the geometry used.
Result	The total energy for the ground state (CASSCF and CASPT2) is 1.4 eV lower for the DFT optimized structure than for the structure obtained from the X-ray measurements.
Conclusion	This might indicate that the crystal structure is perturbed by the packing in the crystal.
Conclusion	The experimental spectrum was measured in acetonitrile, so one can also expect some solvent shifts, in particular for charge transfer excitations.
Conclusion	The changes in dipole moments are small for the ligand field excitations.The ground state dipole moment is −7.41 D, the four first excited states have dipole moments between −6.52 and −7.41 D, and the following three (LMCT) states have dipole moments in the range −11.93 to −12.13 D. Thus, we can see a clear difference between the ligand field states and the charge transfer states and we can expect a bathochromic shift of the transition energies for the latter transition energies.
Result	The clear distinction between ligand field and LMCT states is also illustrated by the Mulliken charges on the copper ion (cf. Table 2), which is around 0.8 for the ligand field states and close to zero for the LMCT states, while the ground state charge is +0.7.
Method	The odd electron is removed from the CuS* orbital in the oxidized form.
Method	Thus, this orbital is now empty.
Method	All low lying excited states correspond to transitions of an electron into this orbital.
Result	The computed excitation energies and oscillator strengths are presented in Table 3.
Result	The agreement with the three experimental bands in the low energy region is fair.
Result	Again we see that computed excitation energies depend on the geometry used, but, analogously to the reduced complex, it is not possible to draw any definitive conclusion about the preferred geometry.
Result	In fact, the total energy of the DFT optimized geometry is 1.1 eV lower than the one calculated for the experimental structure.
Result	The transition at 24 000 cm−1 is intense with an oscillator strength of 0.28.
Result	Although it is a transition from a 3d orbital to CuS*, there is a reorganization effect in the excited state that diminishes the amount of charge transfer.
Result	The created open shell interacts with the sulfur lone pair orbitals such that the orbital is delocalized.
Result	Thus charge is back donated into the 3d shell from the sulfur orbitals.
Result	Such interaction was not present in the reduced complex.
Conclusion	It can occur easier here because of the shorter Cu–S bond distance, that decreases up to 0.13 Å for the optimized geometry of the oxidized form of Cuphma.
Conclusion	The stronger back donation effect also results in larger and more irregular variations of the dipole moments for the different states.
Result	The ground state moment is −2.28 D, while the moments for the excited states vary between −5.21 and +9.30 D. The back donation effect is nicely illustrated by the Mulliken charges on copper, as shown in Table 3.
Result	The ground state charge is +0.39, which is smaller than the copper charge observed in the reduced form!
Result	Moreover, it does not deviate much from this value in the excited states.
Conclusion	The charge neutralization effect is a result of the strong covalency in the Cu–S bond and it is much more effective here than it is in Cu(ii)phma, where the interaction of copper with the sulfur atoms is weaker.
Conclusion	We have in this report described the electronic structure and spectrum of the reduced and oxidized forms of a copper model complex of N,N′-1,2-phenylenebis(2-mercapto-2-methylpropionamide), with the four methyl groups on the atom C1 replaced by hydrogens.
Result	The system is interesting because of the two Cu–S bonds, which do not behave as normal dative bonds, but more like covalent bonds.
Result	This is most pronounced in the oxidized form.
Result	As a result of the increased covalency, the effective charge on the Cu atom is actually smaller in the oxidized form.
Conclusion	The correctness of the calculated electronic structure is validated through the calculation of the electronic spectrum for both oxidation states of the complex.
Conclusion	All bands that involve excitations from either Cu or S localized orbitals to the empty or half empty Cu–S* orbital have been characterized in terms of ligand field transitions and LMCT states involving sulfur orbitals.
Conclusion	These results provide support for the Cu–S* orbital also being involved in the core excitations observed by XAS.
Conclusion	The agreement with the experimental excitation energies and intensities shows that the theoretical description of the electronic structure is essentially correct.

Problem	Electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry analysis of differential turnover of phosphatidylcholine by human blood leukocytes
Background	Synthesis and turnover of membrane phospholipids is essential for cell growth and function, and hydrolysis of membrane phospholipid is central to many intracellular signalling mechanisms.
Background	Hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine (PC) is a major signalling mechanism of neutrophils, leukocytes that phagocytose and kill bacteria as part of the innate immune response, generating phosphatidic acid, diacylglycerol and arachidonate-derived lipid second messengers.
Method	We describe here the application of tandem MS/MS electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry to the analysis of molecular patterns of PC synthesis by blood neutrophil and lymphocyte cells from healthy volunteers.
Method	This technique combined incorporation of the headgroup choline, methyl-labelled with deuterium (methyl-d9-choline), with precursor scans of diagnostic labelled and native fragment ions.
Conclusion	The technique was very sensitive, permitting detection of d9 enrichment <0.01%.
Conclusion	Results showed that the two different cell types maintained distinct molecular species compositions of PC, even though they were exposed to the same nutrient supply in blood.
Conclusion	Moreover, while the pattern of lymphocyte PC synthesis directly mirrored composition, the fractional synthesis of arachidonoyl (C20∶4,n-6)-containing PC species in neutrophils was greatly enhanced compared with composition.
Conclusion	This increased turnover of arachidonoyl species in neutrophils may be related to the active synthesis of eicosanoids and other arachidonoyl-derived mediators in this cell type.
Background	Enzymatic pathways for synthesis and turnover of membrane phospholipids are well characterised, but mechanisms regulating their molecular specificity remain unclear.
Background	The combinations of fatty acyl moieties esterified to the glycerol backbone define the molecular species composition of glycerophospholipids and are major determinants of their biological functions in membranes.
Background	These functions include providing the physico–chemical environment for optimal membrane protein function and acting as substrates for a wide range of intracellular signalling phospholipases.1–3
Method	Traditional analysis of total esterified fatty acids in such lipids by gas chromatography provides little information about such specificities of phospholipid structure and function.
Method	In contrast, the application of electrospray ionisation mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) has had a dramatic impact on studies characterising membrane lipid compositions, due to its exquisite sensitivity and the detailed nature of the information provided.4,5
Method	In this paper, we describe the further application of ESI-MS/MS to quantify absolute rates of phosphatidylcholine (PC) synthesis in intact human white blood cells.
Background	Studies of PC synthesis by livers6,7 and lungs8 of experimental animals, using HPLC to follow incorporations of radioactive substrates, have shown that newly synthesised PC is acyl remodelled to its final membrane composition by sequential actions of phospholipases and acyltransferase enzymes.
Background	Little is known about the operation of comparable synthetic mechanisms in other tissues and cell type, especially from human subjects.
Background	We have previously used ESI-MS/MS to document the incorporation of (methyl-d9-choline) into endonuclear PC of cultured cancer cell lines,9 but this provides no insight into the relative synthetic rates of quiescent primary human cell types.
Background	White blood cells represent a readily accessible population of primary human cells, and sub-population of lymphocyte and neutrophils cells can be obtained in reasonable yield.
Background	This ability is important, as these two cell types have very different functions in vivo.
Background	Lymphocytes orchestrate the humoral immune response, while neutrophils are central to the immediate innate host defence responses to microbial pathogens.
Background	Hydrolysis of PC by phospholipase D is a major mechanism regulating the activation of neutrophils NADPH oxidase,10 the enzyme complex responsible for generation of bacteriocidal oxygen radicals, and maintenance of an optimal PC composition is thought to be central to this process.
Background	In addition, neutrophils are major sources for the generation of prostaglandins and leukotrienes derived from arachidonic acid (C20∶4,n-6),11 which in turn is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2 activity.
Problem	Consequently, this study provided an opportunity to compare mechanisms of PC synthesis by two cell types derived from the same environment which can then be linked with biological function.
Method	Venous blood samples (10 ml) were taken from healthy volunteers using lithium heparin as anti-coagulant, in accordance with permission from the Local Research Ethics Committee.
Method	Whole blood was diluted 1∶1 (v/v) with phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and incubated with deuteriated choline (methyl-d9-choline, 100 µg ml–1) (Pointe-Claire, Quebec, Canada) for 3 h at 37 °C in an atmosphere of 5% (v/v) CO2.
Method	Lymphocyte and neutrophil cell fractions were prepared from diluted blood (8 ml) by sequential centrifugation steps initially over 4 ml of polymorphprep (Robbins Scientific, Solihull, UK) and then over lymphozyten separation medium (PAA laboratories, Yeovil, UK).
Method	Purified cell populations were suspended finally at 2 × 107 cells ml–1 in PBS.
Method	Cells from 1 ml of each fraction were centrifuged at 13 000 rpm in a microcentrifuge (Sanyo MSE Micro Centaur) for 5 s, resuspended in 100 µl PBS and fixed in 900 µl of ice-cold methanol.
Method	Dimyristoyl-phosphatidylcholine (PC 14∶0/14∶0; 15 nmol/107 cells) dissolved in 50 µl chloroform was added before extraction as an internal recovery standard.
Method	Phospholipids from cell fractions were extracted with acidified chloroform and methanol.12
Method	The PC fraction was then purified from the chloroform phase on 100 mg BondElut aminopropyl solid phase extraction cartridges (Phenomenex, Macclesfield, UK) and finally dissolved in methanol∶chloroform∶water∶NH4OH (7∶2∶0.2∶0.2, v∶v) at a concentration of 1 µM.
Method	ESI-MS was performed on a Micromass Quatro Ultima triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (Micromass, Wythenshaw, UK) equipped with an electrospray ionisation interface.
Method	PC samples were introduced to the mass spectrometer by direct injection at a flow rate of 5 µl min–1, and cumulative spectra were obtained for 10 scans each of 12 s.
Result	Capillary voltage was set at +3.5 keV and cone voltage at 100 V. Following collision-induced fragmentation with argon gas, endogenous PC molecules produced a diagnostic fragment with m/z = +184, corresponding to the protonated phosphocholine headgroup.
Result	Newly synthesised PC, which contained 9 deuterons, produced an analogous fragment at m/z = +193.
Method	Sequential precursor scans of the m/z 184 and 193 moieties permitted the determination of endogenous and newly synthesised PC species.9,13
Method	Mass spectra were quantified after conversion to centroid format and export to an Excel spreadsheet.
Method	Ion intensities for selected species were corrected first for the 13C isotope effect and second for the decreasing efficiency of MS/MS fragmentation with increasing molecular mass.
Method	Because of the approximately 1% natural abundance of 13C in biological compounds, all PC species were detected as a series of ion peaks of increasing unit mass and decreasing intensity.
Method	The fractional abundance of the [M + H]+ molecular ion therefore decreased with increasing molecular mass, and [M + 2H]+ ions overlapped with PC species two mass units higher.
Method	For each individual PC species, correction for these effects was achieved by subtracting the calculated [M + 2H]+ ion intensity of the preceding PC species and then dividing by the fractional [M + H]+ ion intensity calculated as a proportion of all ion peaks.
Method	The formula for reduced response factor with increasing m/z was calculated experimentally as follows: a = 2 × 1013b–3.9873, where a = reduced response factor relative to a value of 1.00 for PC14∶0/14∶0 and b = m/z value.
Method	Identities of the major PC molecular species in each ion peak were established from fragmentation patterns of [M-15]– in negative ionisation, which represents loss of one methyl group from the molecular ion.
Background	This was feasible as the BondElut sample purification removed any phosphatidylethanolamine and acidic phospholipid that would have interfered with such analysis in the total lipid extract under conditions of negative ionisation.
Result	Product ions due to fatty acyl substitutes were major components of these fragmentation spectra and provided a direct assessment of their combinations for each PC species.
Result	The relative intensities of each product fatty acid also enabled their assignment to either the sn-1 or sn-2 positions.14
Result	Consequently, the molecular species of PC identified in this paper represent in each case the major component in each respective ion peak.
Result	The majority of PC molecules detected were diacyl species where both fatty acyl moeties are esterified to the glycerol backbone of the molecule.
Result	A minor population of sn-1-alkyl-2-acyl PC (plasmanyl) species was also detected and characterised by exhibiting molecular ions 14 m/z units lower than the corresponding diacyl species combined with fragmentation in negative ionisation to produce solely the acyl group from the sn-2 position.
Result	The resistance of these ether PC species to acid eliminated the possibility that they were sn-1-alkenyl-2-acyl species, as the vinyl bond in such plasmenyl molecules is acid labile14.
Method	Due to the quaternary nitrogen in the choline headgroup, PC species are readily detected by ESI-MS in positive ionisation and, as PC ions carry only a single charge, mass∶charge (m/z) is equivalent to molecular mass.
Method	Any methyl-d9-choline incorporated during PC synthesis will produce an ion peak 9 m/z units higher than the corresponding endogenous PC species.
Result	However, given the relatively low rate of incorporation of label over the three hour incubation, it was not possible to distinguish any incorporated material in the full positive scan from background endogenous material (Fig. 1A).
Result	This figure illustrates a portion of the spectrum with PC16∶0/18∶1 (m/z 760) as the predominant PC species present, and clearly demonstrates that any newly-synthesised PC16∶0/18∶1, expected at m/z 769, could not be resolved from minor ion peaks derived from endogenous PC species.
Result	Fragmentation of the ion at m/z 769 in positive ionisation generated a major diagnostic product at m/z 184, corresponding to the phosphocholine headgroup, together with a less abundant but well resolved ion at m/z 193 derived from PC containing incorporated methyl-d9-choline (Fig. 1B, upper panel).
Result	Comparable fragmentation of the ion at m/z 760 produced only the single product at m/z 184 (Fig. 1B, lower panel).
Result	This result indicates that while m/z 760 was comprised solely of endogenous PC, the ion at m/z 193 contained both endogenous and a smaller amount of newly-synthesised PC.
Result	The ability to distinguish these product ions formed the basis of the technique for quantifying PC synthesis by comparing ion counts of precursor scans of m/z 193 with those of comparable precursor scans of m/z 184 (Fig. 1C).
Result	The upper panel of Fig. 1C represents newly synthesised PC species that fragmented to give phosphoryl-(methyl-d9)-choline (m/z 193) while the lower panel indicates endogenous PC species that generated solely the m/z 184 fragment ion.
Result	Although d9-enriched material was only a minor product of the ion peak at m/z 769, the pattern of PC species with incorporated methyl-d9-choline was clearly distinguishable from the endogenous material.
Result	Intensities of these two spectra are normalised to the major ion peak displayed in each case as the total ion count for the precursor scan of m/z 193 was less than 1% that of m/z 184 and would consequently be negligible if displayed on the same scale.
Method	Enrichment of PC with methyl-d9-choline was calculated from the ratio of the sums of the corrected ion counts of identified species in precursor scans of m/z 193 compared with m/z 184.
Background	This enrichment is a reasonable estimate of the absolute rate of PC synthesis in these cells, as methyl-d9-choline was added to the medium in at least a ten-fold excess over unlabelled choline in the cells.
Result	Comparison of typical PC spectra, determined as precursor scans of m/z 184, demonstrate considerable differences between purified lymphocyte and neutrophil preparations (Fig. 2).
Result	While monounsaturated species were the major components for both cell types (PC16∶0/18∶1, m/z 760), lymphocyte PC was enriched in species containing arachidonate (PC16∶0/20∶4, m/z 782; PC18∶1/20∶4, m/z 808; PC18∶0/20∶4, m/z 810) and, paradoxically, in the disaturated species PC16∶0/16∶0 (m/z 734) (Fig. 2A).
Result	By comparison, neutrophil PC was relatively depleted in arachidonoyl-containing species but contained increased amounts of 1-alkyl-2-acyl species characterised by an ether rather than an ester bond at the sn-1 position (e.g. PC16∶0alk/18∶1, m/z 746) (Fig. 2B).
Result	Comparable analyses of PC synthesis from precursor scans of m/z 193 are illustrated in Fig. 3.
Result	Fractional PC synthesis rates over the experimental period were 1.49 ± 0.16% for lymphocytes and 0.59 ± 0.21% for neutrophils (mean ± sd, n = 5).
Result	Despite this low abundance compared with endogenous material, the spectra in Fig. 3 demonstrate clearly the ready quantification of such scans, with typical signal∶noise ratios > 200.
Result	Comparison of these spectra suggest low rates of incorporation of methyl-d9-choline into the 1-alkyl-2-acyl plasmanylcholine in both lymphocytes (Fig. 3A) and neutrophils (Fig. 3B), but synthesis of all other PC species was well resolved at 9 m/z units higher.
Result	Analysis of the combined data suggested that negligible fatty acyl remodelling mechanisms operated in PC synthesis by human blood lymphocytes (Fig. 4A), as the pattern of methyl-d9-choline was essentially the same as that of endogenous PC.
Result	For neutrophils by comparison, the fractional incorporation of methyl-d9-choline into arachidonoyl species of PC (especially PC18∶0/20∶4) was considerably greater than the relative abundance of the endogenous molecular species (Fig. 4B).
Conclusion	The simplest interpretation of this observation is a rapid turnover rate of the arachidonoyl moiety in neutrophils PC.
Background	This in turn may be related to the high metabolic requirement in neutrophils for arachidonate, generated by the action of phospholipase A2 on membrane phospholipid,15 for generation of eicosanoid inflammatory mediators, especially leukotriene B4.
Conclusion	The mechanisms responsible for this increased turnover of arachidonate in neutrophil PC require further investigation, but the results of this study provide a good illustration how the application of a physical technique such as ESI-MS can provide considerably greater detail and sensitivity of information than previous approaches following the incorporations of radiolabelled precursors.
Conclusion	Moreover, they also demonstrate that previous concepts of acyl remodelling in PC synthesis, derived from studies in liver and lungs,6–8 are not applicable to human blood leukocytes.
Conclusion	These studies suggested that PC was synthesised in both tissues enriched in diunsaturated species, predominately PC16∶0/18∶2, and was remodelled by subsequent actions of phospholipases and acyltransferases to, respectively, polyunsaturated or disaturated species.
Conclusion	As both liver and lungs are organs characterised by secretion of phospholipid, as lipoprotein or lung surfactant, it is possible that this pattern of acyl remodelling is characteristic of PC destined for secretion rather than for structural membrane synthesis.

Problem	On the role of the CP47 core antenna in the energy transfer and trapping dynamics of Photosystem II
Background	The CP47–RC complex of photosystem II (PS II) has an antenna subunit of 16 chlorophyll a molecules attached to the reaction center (RC) at the side of its inactive branch.
Result	The X-ray structure of PS II revealed that the shortest interpigment distances between CP47 and RC are about 21 Å, which is two-three times larger than within each subunit.
Problem	Such long distances may slow down the energy transfer from CP47 to RC.
Problem	In order to evaluate the influence of the CP47 antenna on the energy transfer and trapping dynamics in the RC we performed a comparative analysis of CP47–RC and RC complexes from spinach by transient difference absorption and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy at room temperature.
Result	Our data reveal a complex multiexponential decay of the excited states in both complexes.
Result	The main trapping lifetimes are 2–3, 30–40 and 360–460 ps in the RC and 2–6, 80–85 and 650–700 ps in the CP47–RC, the latter two phases being two to three times longer than in the RC.
Result	The data could be fitted well with a kinetic model consisting of three reversible radical pair states, the first one being nearly isoenergetic with P680*, and identical energy levels and kinetics of processes occurring within the RC in both complexes.
Conclusion	We conclude that there is no kinetic limitation of the energy transfer between CP47 and RC on the two slowest trapping phases and that this transfer occurs in 20 ps or less.
Conclusion	The two factors that influence the observed slower trapping in CP47–RC are the highly reversible charge separation reaction in the RC and the presence in CP47 of states with energy lower than the primary electron donor P680.
Background	In the thylakoid membranes of green plants, algae and cyanobacteria the reaction center (RC) of photosystem II (PS II) is surrounded by a number of pigment-protein complexes that harvest sunlight and efficiently deliver excitation energy to the RC.1
Background	The subunits most close to the RC are CP43 and CP47, which together with the RC and a number of extrinsic proteins involved in water oxidation constitute the PS II core complex.
Background	Structures of cyanobacterial PS II core complexes were obtained recently at 3.5–3.8 Å resolution.2–4
Background	The main features of the cyanobacterial structure match reasonably well those of green plants, so it is valid to use the X-ray structure of PS II from cyanobacteria as a model for the structure of the PS II core complex of higher plants.5
Background	According to the X-ray structure the RC (D1/D2/Cyt b559) complex comprises 8 chlorins and 2 carotenes, all of which participate in the energy transfer and/or electron transfer processes.
Background	Four chlorophyll (Chl) and two pheophytin (Pheo) molecules are arranged in two branches in the central part of the complex.
Background	One branch is known to be active in charge separation.9
Background	Two Chl molecules are bound at the periphery of the complex at distances of about 24 Å from the core pigments and do not participate in the primary charge separation process, though they can be involved in secondary electron transfer processes, just as the two β-carotene molecules and cytochrome b559.6
Background	The CP47 complex contains 16 Chls and two β-carotenes.4
Background	In the thylakoid membrane it is located at the side of the inactive branch of the RC.
Background	The closest interpigment distance between CP47 (Chl43 according to the nomenclature in ref. 2) and RC (PheoD2 and ChlZD2) is about 21 Å, which is considerably more than the ca. 9 Å average interpigment distance in CP47.
Background	In all PS II RC preparations obtained thusfar the secondary electron acceptors, the plastoquinones QA and QB, were removed from their binding sites during the isolation procedure, implying that photochemistry does not proceed beyond the primary radical pair.
Background	The CP47–RC complex differs from the RC mainly by the presence of the additional antenna subunit, because QA is also largely absent after isolation and purification.7
Background	This means that these two complexes represent a good target for comparative studies of the influence the CP47 core antenna on the energy transfer and charge separation processes in the RC.
Method	The kinetics of energy transfer and trapping in the RC have been studied by several groups using both ultrafast absorbance difference and fluorescence techniques.
Background	The results were reviewed elsewhere.8,9
Background	According to these studies the transfer of excitation energy within the six central chlorins of the RC is ultrafast, with a time constant of about 100 or 600 fs upon excitation into the blue or red edge of the Qy absorption band, respectively,10 though slower energy transfer components can probably not be excluded, in particular at low temperatures.11
Background	It was suggested12 that charge separation occurs from an excited state which at least at room temperature is distributed over a significant fraction of the six core chlorins, depending on the particular realisation of the disorder.
Background	The charge separation reactions are strongly multiphasic, with main components in the range of 0.4–3, 20–50 and 120–500 ps.
Background	The details of charge separation process are not precisely understood yet, especially with regard to the role of the “accessory” Chl on the active branch of the RC (ChlD1 according to the nomenclature in ref. 2).
Background	It has been proposed that at least at low temperatures ChlD1 acts as primary electron donor and that the ChlD1+ PheoD1− pair occurs first, followed by electron transfer from PD1 to ChlD1+.13
Background	The findings that ChlD1 is the red-most absorbing chromophore in the PS II RC14 and that PheoD1 and ChlD1 give rise to a charge-transfer state of about equal energy with those of the main exciton states15 are in line with this idea.
Background	Lifetimes of about 0.4, 3 and 8 ps were suggested for the primary charge separation.8,9
Background	The 20–50 ps processes were interpreted as formation of a secondary radical pair or primary charge separation limited by the slow transfer from the peripheral Chls to the core of RC.16–20
Background	The 200–500 ps kinetics, initially attributed to radical pair relaxation due to electron transfer to QA,21 were also observed in isolated RC preparations, which do not contain QA.22
Background	It was proposed that the slow relaxation reactions of the radical pair may be induced by conformational changes of the protein, induced by the creation of the two charges.23
Background	Recent experiments indicated that most of the energy transfer dynamics in CP47 occurs within 2–3 ps.24
Background	In CP47 the lowest energetic state absorbs at 690 nm with an oscillator strength equal to that of 1 Chl.
Background	The 690 nm state gives a major contribution to the low temperature emission of CP47 and determines a 17 ps lifetime of energy transfer in CP47 at 77 K. The 690 nm pigment is most probably located at the periphery of CP47 not close to the RC and its population will slow down rather than speed up the energy transfer to the reaction center.25
Background	For PS II core complexes it was initially proposed21,26 that excitation energy equilibrates rapidly within several hundreds of femtoseconds between the core antenna and the RC, and that then charge separation occurs within several picoseconds (trap-limited model).
Method	Earlier fluorescence measurements performed on CP47–RC and larger PS II particles27,28 supported the fast energy equilibration between core antenna and RC.
Background	In contrast, calculations of energy transfer rates29 performed on the basis of the recently published PS II structures suggested slow energy transfer from the core antenna to RC, even though most of the Chls in the core antenna are oriented in a way favourable for efficient transfer to the RC.30
Background	The lifetime of charge separation depends in this case on the slow energy delivery process from the core antenna to the RC (transfer-to-the-trap-limited model).
Problem	In this contribution we present room temperature transient absorption and time-resolved fluorescence studies on PS II RC and CP47–RC complexes purified from spinach.
Problem	Our goal was to record the energy transfer and trapping processes in RC and CP47–RC under similar experimental conditions to be able to make a reliable comparison of the obtained results.
Result	The results indicate that the presence of the CP47 antenna reduces the rate constants of trapping by a factor of 2–3.
Result	A fit based on a kinetic model suggests that the slower trapping observed in CP47–RC is caused by a shift of the excited states distribution towards the CP47 antenna, and that the intrinsic rate for energy transfer from CP47 to RC does not limit the overall trapping kinetics in the CP47–RC complex.
Method	PSII RCs were purified from spinach Tris-washed “BBY” grana membranes31 as described by van Leeuwen et al.32
Method	CP47–RC complexes were purified from spinach as described elsewhere.7
Method	For the spectroscopic measurements, all samples were diluted in a buffer containing 20 mM Bis-Tris (pH 6.5), 10 mM MgCl2, 10 mM CaCl2 and 0.03% n-dodecyl-β-d-maltoside (β-DM).
Method	Semi-anaerobic conditions in the samples were created by addition of catalase, glucose and glucose oxidase, in that order, to final concentrations of 120 μg ml−1, 10 mM and 120 μg ml−1, respectively.
Method	The optical density (OD) of the samples used for the transient absorption and fluorescence measurements was about 0.7 mm−1 and 0.8 cm−1, respectively, at the Qy absorption maximum.
Method	The steady state absorption of the samples was compared before and after measurement.
Result	Sample degradation was in all cases less than 1%.
Method	We also analyzed the CP47–RC complex before and after measurement by diode-array-assisted gel filtration chromatography.33
Method	This technique allows a quantitative estimation of the amount of free CP47 and free pigments in the samples.
Result	The results revealed a contamination of free CP47 complexes of 1% or less in the samples and no measurable amount of free chlorophylls (not shown), suggesting no significant contribution of unbound CP47 or free chlorophylls to the observed kinetics.
Method	Absorption difference spectra were recorded with a femtosecond spectrophotometer, described in detail elsewhere.34
Method	In brief, the output of Ti:Sapphire oscillator (Coherent Mira) was amplified by means of chirped pulse amplification (Alpha-1000 US, B. M. Industries), generating 1 kHz, 800 nm, 60 fs pulses.
Method	Single-filament probe white light was generated in a 2 mm sapphire plate.
Method	Pump light at 400 nm was obtained by doubling the 800 nm fundamental via a SHG crystal.
Method	Pump light in the visible wavelength range was produced in a home-built, noncollinear optical parametric amplifier.
Method	After prism compression, the pulse duration was reduced to 50–60 fs.
Method	Interference filters with transmission maxima at 662 and 695 nm and fwhm 12 and 15 nm, respectively, were used to select the wavelength of excitation.
Method	Transient absorption difference spectra were collected with probe and excitation beams oriented at magic angle.
Method	The excitation beam was focused in a spot with 350 μm diameter.
Method	The energy of excitation was 15 nJ pulse−1 upon 662 and 695 nm excitations, and 30 nJ pulse−1 upon 400 nm excitation.
Result	We estimated that about 0.25–0.5 photons were absorbed by each complex per laser shot upon 400 nm excitation, and 0.1–0.2 photons per complex upon 662 and 695 nm excitations.
Method	The cuvette (1 mm pathlength) was shaken in order to refresh the sample from shot to shot.
Method	The time resolution was typically 120 fs and the spectral resolution was 3 nm.
Method	The data were corrected for white light group velocity dispersion and instrument response, and fitted globally as described in .ref. 35
Method	A coherent coupling between pump and probe pulses36,37 was included into the fit function for the data obtained upon 662 and 695 nm excitations.
Method	Time-resolved fluorescence emission spectra were recorded with a Hamamatsu C5680 synchroscan streak camera as described in .ref. 38
Method	In short, the output of a Ti:Sapphire oscillator (Coherent Mira-Rega), generating 125 kHz, 800 nm, 150 fs pulses, was doubled via an OPA (Coherent), producing 125 kHz, 400 nm, 150 fs pulses.
Method	A 665 nm light was generated via the OPA (Coherent) and selected with the interference filter with fwhm = 5 nm.
Method	The sample was placed in a spinning cell (diameter 10 cm) with rotation frequency of 75 Hz.
Method	The excitation energy was 1–2 nJ/pulse and the excitation beam was focused in a spot with 150 μm diameter, corresponding to about 0.05–0.1 absorbed photons per complex.
Method	Fluorescence was collected at magic angle with respect to the polarization of the excitation beam.
Method	The time resolution was 3.5 ps for 400 nm excitation and 6 ps for 665 nm excitation, the spectral resolution was 5 nm.
Method	The fluorescence data were corrected for white light group velocity dispersion and instrument response, and fitted globally as described in ref. 38.
Result	Fig. 1 shows room temperature absorption spectra of the isolated RC and CP47–RC complexes.
Result	The Qy absorption band peaks at 675 and 675.5 nm for the RC and CP47–RC respectively.
Result	The Qy absorption band of the RC is highly congested, though there is some evidence that the peripheral Chls contribute more to the blue side of the Qy absorption (670–675 nm),17,39 and that most of the six central chlorins of the PS II RC absorb at around 680 nm.40
Method	Thus, some selectivity can be achieved upon applying different wavelengths of excitations.
Result	The Qy band of isolated CP47 overlaps fully with that of the PS II RC and is even broader than this spectrum due to the presence in CP47 of Chls absorbing at energies higher and lower than those of the RC.
Conclusion	Thus selective excitation of one of subunits within CP47–RC can not be achieved.
Result	The different lineshapes of the two preparations in the Soret region is explained by the relatively higher content in the RC of Pheo a and cytochrome b-559, which both have strong absorbances at 416 nm33.
Method	Transient difference absorption spectra of RC and CP47–RC were measured on a time scale up to 4 ns upon excitation into the Soret band of Chl a (λex = 400 nm), and the blue and red edges of the Qy absorption band (λex = 662 and 695 nm, respectively).
Result	The decay-associated difference spectra (DADS) obtained after global analysis are shown in Fig. 2.
Result	The decay of delta absorption in the PS II RC complex could be fitted reasonably well with five components for 662 and 400 nm excitation and three components for 695 nm excitation.
Result	The first DADS has a lifetime of about 100 fs and has a very different shape for the three wavelengths of excitation.
Result	Upon 400 nm excitation it has a strongly positive amplitude (Fig. 2e), indicating that excited states of Qy absorption bands are populated during this time.
Result	This phase can therefore be attributed to Soret to Qy relaxation processes.
Result	The first DADS upon 662 nm excitation (Fig. 2c) has a negative peak at 670 nm and a positive peak at 683 nm.
Result	The conservative shape suggests energy transfer from species absorbing maximally at 670 nm to species absorbing maximally at 683 nm.
Result	Subpicosecond equilibration processes in PS II RC complexes were observed and extensively discussed before.10
Result	This fast equilibration must almost exclusively occur within the six central chlorines of the PS II RC, because there is evidence that the peripheral Chls transfer energy to the central pigments on a much slower timescale (10–30 ps).
Result	The second DADS has a lifetime of about 2–3 ps and has similar, but not identical shapes upon different wavelengths of excitation.
Result	For 400 and 695 nm excitation it consists of a negative band peaking at about 683 nm and a positive band around 660–670 nm.
Result	For 662 nm excitation, the negative band is slightly blue-shifted while no positive band between 660 and 670 is observed.
Conclusion	We attribute this phase to primary charge separation.
Background	Merry et al10. reported a 600 fs uphill energy transfer in PS II RC complexes upon 694 nm excitation, which was better resolved in data with a parallel orientation of pump and probe beams.
Problem	It is possible that uphill energy transfer contributes to the 2 ps DADS in our magic angle data upon 695 nm excitation, but that it could not be resolved as a separate, 600 fs component.
Result	The shape of the 2 ps DADS obtained upon 400 and 695 nm is similar to the 3 ± 1 ps DADS obtained upon 543 nm excitation into the Qx band of Pheo a (data not shown).
Conclusion	This gives evidence that Pheo contributes to the absorption around 680 nm and also confirms that Pheo participates in the initial charge separation process.
Result	The third DADS has a lifetime of about 20–30 ps and has a negative amplitude in the whole Qy range, except for a positive feature around 680 nm upon 662 and 400 nm excitation.
Result	The negative contribution in the red edge of this DADS for a large part is due to the decay of stimulated emission.
Conclusion	Stimulated emission must occur from excited states, implying that excited states still contribute to the observed absorption changes on the tens of ps timescale, in line with the fluorescence measurements (see below).
Result	The positive feature around 680 nm may occur as a result of several processes: energy transfer from peripheral chlorophylls peaking at 670 nm, electrochromic bandshifts caused by the positive and negative charges associated with PD1+ PheoD1− formation, like in the bacterial RC,41 and a blueshift of red exciton states caused by PD1+ PheoD1− formation.
Result	Excitation at 695 nm will prevent the first possibility, and the absence of the positive 680 nm feature upon 695 nm excitation suggests that energy transfer from peripheral chlorophylls at 670–680 nm states gives an important contribution to the overall kinetics.
Result	The fourth DADS has a very small amplitude in transient absorption, and has a lifetime of about 360–460 ps.
Result	This phase was not observed upon 695 nm excitation, which could be due to its small amplitude.
Result	This phase has a prominent amplitude in the fluorescence decay (see below), and can therefore be attributed to radical pair relaxation.
Result	The non-decaying (ND) absorbance within the time range of our experiments has a minimum at 680 nm and is positive at wavelengths longer than 700 nm, which is an indicator of presence of the PD1+PheoD1− radical pair, the final product of charge separation.18
Background	It is known that in the isolated RC the radical pair has a lifetime of about 50 ns at room temperature,42 which then recombines to the ground state or the P680* singlet or triplet state.
Result	Its shape is identical upon all wavelengths of excitation.
Result	The global analysis revealed six, five and four components for CP47–RC upon 400, 662 and 695 nm excitation (Fig. 2b, d, f).
Result	The first DADS (80–180 fs) have similar shapes as those observed in the RC and similar origins: Soret to Qy energy transfer for 400 nm excitation and energy equilibration between 670 and 680 nm absorbing species for 662 nm excitation.
Result	It is likely that the latter phase occurs not only in the RC, but also within CP47, because in isolated CP47 a strong 200 fs energy transfer from 670 to 680 nm absorbing species was found (at 77 K).24
Result	In all traces one or two transients were found with lifetimes of 2–6 ps.
Result	These lifetimes most probably reflect a mixture of at least two processes: downhill energy transfer within CP47, as was shown to occur at 77 K,24 and charge separation within the RC (like the 2.5 ps component in the RC).
Result	It is also possible that energy equilibration between CP47 and RC contributes to this phase.
Result	The shapes of the 2–4 ps phases are similar to those of the corresponding phases in the RC, which suggests that direct charge separation within the RC contributes to a significant extent to these phases.
Result	The 6 ps phase upon 400 nm excitation has a shape consistent with downhill energy transfer within CP47.
Result	The third series of DADS have lifetimes of 75–90 ps and have roughly similar shapes as those of the 20–30 ps DADS in the RC, exept for the large negative feature caused by CP47 excited states.
Result	The negative amplitudes suggest that they all reflect a recovery of bleach, caused by a conversion of chlorophyll/pheophytin excited states into their oxidizes/reduced states.
Result	These DADS can therefore be attributed to the secondary trapping process, which in CP47–RC has an about threefold increased lifetime.
Result	A fourth series of DADS have lifetimes of 750–1000 ps.
Result	The amplitudes of these DADS are larger than those in the RC, and the lifetimes are two to three times longer.
Result	It is likely that a third step of radical pair relaxation contributes to these decays.
Result	The fact that these DADS are larger than in the RC can be explained by the fact that due to the presence of CP47 about 3x more excited states remain before this phase occurs.
Result	For all excitation wavelengths, the non-decaying (ND) components have similar shapes as those observed for the RC, and thus reflect the absorbance difference spectrum of the PD1+ PheoD1− radical pair.
Conclusion	From the results of this section we conclude that in both complexes multiexponential trapping by charge separation occurs.
Result	The lifetimes of trapping are about 2–3, 23–30 and 360–460 ps for the RC and 2–4, 70–90 and 700–1000 ps for CP47–RC.
Result	The last two processes are about three times longer in CP47–RC than in the RC.
Result	Fig. 3 shows the steady-state emission spectra of RC and CP47–RC at room temperature which peak at 681 and 683 nm, respectively.
Result	Isolated CP47 peaks at 683 nm.44
Result	The 2 nm red shift of the CP47–RC emission maximum is consistent with the fact that CP47 makes a significant contribution to the emission of the CP47–RC complex.
Method	We have measured time-resolved fluorescence spectra of RC and CP47–RC upon 400 and 665 nm excitation, using a streak camera set-up.
Method	This technique allows a better time and spectral resolution than the more commonly used single-photon timing technique, and was used before for an analysis of RC complexes with red excitation (F. van Mourik et al., manuscript in preparation).
Method	For our experiments, the time resolution was 3.5 ps for 400 nm excitation and 6 ps for 665 nm excitation.
Method	This was not sufficient to resolve subpicosecond processes with similar accuracy as in pump–probe experiments.
Result	Experimental traces are shown in Fig. 4.
Result	It is obvious from these pictures that CP47–RC is characterised by a longer decay of the emission than RC.
Result	The decay associated emission spectra (DAES) for RC and CP47–RC are shown in Figs. 5 and 6.
Background	Apart from a poorly resolved sub-picosecond transient, four components were needed to fit the fluorescence decay of the RC for 400 and 665 nm excitation (Figs. 5a and 6a, respectively).
Result	The first DAES has a lifetime of about 3 ps, and peaks considerably (400 and 695 nm excitation: F. van Mourik et al., manuscript in preparation) or slightly (665 nm excitation) more to the red than all subsequent decay phases.
Result	The DAES for 400 nm excitation has a positive peak at 690 nm and a small negative feature at 672 nm.
Result	The shape of this DAES is non-conservative (with a large positive and a small negative part).
Result	The large positive part (decrease of fluorescence) reflects the trapping by charge separation from states emitting around 685–690 nm.
Result	The small negative part can be explained by uphill energy transfer.
Result	The following DAES have positive amplitudes and lifetimes of 39 and 360 ps, and reflect subsequent processes of trapping by charge separation.
Background	This subsequent trapping could only be observed in fluorescence measurements when excited states are still present in the complex, i.e. if trapping is intrinsically multi-exponential.
Background	One possible cause for multi-exponentiality is that trapping is reversible and that the initially formed radical pair ‘relaxes’, which will causes a decrease of excited states population resulting in a decrease of fluorescence.
Result	The 39 ps DAES upon 400 nm excitation and the 400 ps DAES upon both excitation wavelengths are similar in shape compared to the steady-state emission of the RC, suggesting that at least the 400 ps processes occur from excited states equilibrated over all pigments.
Result	Comparison of the 40 ps DAES upon 400 and 665 nm excitation (Fig. 7) reveals that this DAES upon 665 nm excitation has a larger contribution in the blue part around 670 nm.
Result	This suggests that the 40 ps trapping process occurs from a non-equilibrated state and thus can be a mixture of at least two processes: slow energy transfer from (peripheral) chlorophylls absorbing around 670 nm, and trapping by the formation of a secondary radical pair.
Result	The 400 ps DAES contributes significantly to the emission of the RC, consistent with radical pair relaxation.
Result	The last DAES have a lifetime more than 15 ns which can be attributed to the lifetime of radical pair.
Result	The DAES obtained for CP47–RC upon 400 and 665 nm excitation are shown in Figs. 5b and 6b, respectively.
Result	The first DAES has a lifetime of about 5 ps, but a very different shape for both excitation wavelengths.
Result	Upon 665 nm excitation, it has a positive peak at 675 nm and negative peak at 695 nm, consistent with energy transfer within CP47.
Conclusion	The non-conservative character of this DAES suggests that trapping also occurs on the same time scale.
Result	Upon 400 nm excitation, the shape of this component is similar to the 3 ps component in the RC.
Result	Its amplitude, however, is smaller than that of the next DAES in the CP47–RC complex.
Conclusion	This phase must be largely due to charge separation.
Result	The following two DAES have positive amplitudes and reflect trapping by charge separation with lifetimes of about 80–85 ps and 650–700 ps.
Result	These times are similar to those observed in transient absorption, and the amplitudes suggest that both processes contribute about equally to the trapping.
Conclusion	The large amplitudes of these DAESes suggest that the decay of CP47 excited states largely contributes to these components.
Result	The last DAES has a lifetime longer than 15 ns which can attributed to the lifetime of radical pair.
Background	The analysis of the time-resolved fluorescence and transient difference absorption data allowed us to make the following conclusions.
Result	In the PS II RC complex, the excitation energy is rapidly (about 100 fs and less than 2–3 ps upon excitation in the blue and red edges of the Qy absorption band, respectively) redistributed among the central six pigments of the RC between states absorbing at around 670 and 680 nm.
Result	Then the initial trapping process occurs with a timeconstant of 2–3 ps.
Result	The following 30–40 ps process is a mixture of at least two: secondary radical pair formation and transfer of excitation energy from blue-shifted Chls.
Result	A 360–460 ps trapping phase can be assigned to further radical pair relaxation.
Result	The relaxed radical pair lives longer than 15 ns.
Result	In CP47–RC, the first trapping phase takes place on the 2–6 ps timescale, but its kinetics can not easily be followed because of the presence of a major energy transfer process within CP47 in the same time range.
Result	Also energy transfer between CP47 and RC can in principle occur on this timescale.
Result	Just as in the RC there are two subsequent trapping phases.
Result	Both are about three times longer in CP47–RC than in RC.
Conclusion	Thus, the addition of the CP47 antenna results in a lengthening of the two slow phases in excited state decay by a factor of about three.
Conclusion	These experimental observations can be explained in at least two ways: (1) the intrinsic rate constant of energy transfer between CP47 and RC is slow due to long distances between the pigments of CP47 and RC; this slow transfer would slow down the subsequent process of trapping in the RC, and (2) the intrinsic rate constant of energy transfer between CP47 and RC is fast, while the excited states distribution is shifted towards CP47 because of red-absorbing states.
Conclusion	The equilibration of the excited states over a larger antenna will then cause the slower trapping lifetimes observed in the experiments.
Conclusion	These two possibilities can be summarized as transfer-to-the-trap-limited and trap-limited kinetics, respectively.
Method	For the RC, we used a model with five compartments (Fig. 8a).
Method	Compartments ‘A*’ and ‘RC*’ correspond to the average excited state energy levels of blue 670 Chls and bulk 680 chlorins, respectively.
Method	The former may correspond to the two distant Chls in the RC; the latter to the six central chlorins of the RC core.
Method	Compartment ‘RP1’ represents the energy level of the first radical pair.
Method	The subsequent relaxations of the radical pair are represented by the compartments ‘RP2’ and ‘RP3’.
Method	For simplicity, we discard fast equilibration within the RC core, and thus assume that charge separation takes place from a state equilibrated over all core pigments.
Method	We only modelled the fluorescence data upon 665 nm excitation.
Method	All compartments are connected by forward and backward energy transfer.
Method	The back transfer rate was calculated via the Boltzmann factor: kji = kij(Ni/Nj)exp(−Δij/kT), in which Ni is the number of chlorophylls in compartment i, Δij is the energy difference between compartment i and compartment j, k is Boltzmann’s constant, T is the absolute temperature.
Method	The losses including emission are expressed via the value kfl−1 which is of the order of the lifetime of fluorescence of free Chl.
Method	The total emission decay is proportional to the sum of decays of populations of excited states ‘A*’ and ‘RC*’.
Method	In order to exclude the influence of apparatus response functions on the experimentally measured kinetics, we used data obtained from global analysis of the fluorescence measurements, and integrated over all wavelengths.
Method	The latter simplification is justified, because apart from the 2–3 ps phase all decay components have similar spectra.
Result	The model presented in Fig. 8a gives a good fit of the fluorescence decay in the PS II RC.
Result	The fit for the 665 nm excitation data is shown in Fig. 9a.
Result	The parameters of the fit are listed in Table 1 together with the reciprocal eigenvalues obtained from the solution of the master equation describing the model.
Result	The reciprocal eigenvalues are close to the time constants obtained in the experiment.
Result	Values of 25.7 and 37.4 ps can not be resolved separately, and give a single value of 23–30 ps in pump–probe and 39 ps in fluorescence.
Result	The energy gap between ‘A*’ and ‘RC*’ is 284 cm−1, assuming that blue Chls and bulk chlorins absorb maximally at 670 and 683 nm respectively.
Result	Slight changes in these energy levels did not significantly influence the fit.
Method	We assumed that ‘RC*’ and ‘RP1’ are nearly isoenergetic.
Result	Slightly higher or lower energy levels for ‘RP1’ relatively to ‘RC*’ did not increase the quality of the fit.
Result	The two subsequent relaxations give an energy differences between ‘RC*’ and the final charge separated state ‘RP3’ of 76.5 meV.
Background	This value has been measured to lie between 46 and 110 meV.23,43–46
Conclusion	The fact that the initial radical pairs are not much below the excited state in free energy explains why the emission can be observed over such a long time window.
Result	The contribution of each compartment of the model to the total decay of emission is shown in Fig. 10a.
Result	It is clear from the picture that ‘RC*’ and ‘RP1’ fully equilibrate in about 180 ps.
Result	After that the populations of the both states remain similar.
Result	The contribution of the blue chls (compartment ‘A*’) to the total decay is essential only up to about 100 ps.
Method	For the CP47–RC we added an additional compartment ‘B*’ (Fig. 8b) corresponding to the average energy level of CP47. ‘B*’ is reversibly connected with the compartments ‘A*’ and ‘RC*’.
Method	In this case compartment ‘A*’ corresponds to the average energy level of only one distant Chl from RC, the closest to CP47.
Method	The total emission decay is proportional to the sum of decays of populations of excited states ‘A*’, ‘B*’ and ‘RC*’.
Result	The fit of CP47–RC fluorescence upon 665 nm excitation is shown in Fig. 9b.
Method	For the processes occurring within the RC, we used the same energy levels and rate constants as found for the isolated RC complex.
Result	The parameters of the fit and the eigenvalues are listed in Table 2.
Method	To obtain a good fit of the experimental data it was necessary to set level ‘B*’ lower in energy than ‘RC*’.
Result	A small energy gap of 42.9 cm−1 (see Table 2) still allows efficient uphill energy transfer from ‘B*’ to ‘RC*’ at room temperature.
Result	Furthermore, a good fit of the data can only be obtained if the intrinsic rate constant of energy transfer from CP47 to RC is sufficiently fast.
Result	We found an upper limit for this transfer rate of (20 ps)−1.
Result	Slower rates result in a too slow decay of the excited states, which can only be corrected for by changing the energy levels of the secondary and tertiary radical pairs in the RC.
Result	The contribution of each compartment to the total decay of the emission is shown in Fig. 10b.
Result	The ingrowth of population of each radical pair in CP47–RC is now much slower than in RC, which is because the excited states distribution is shifted towards CP47.
Conclusion	The main conclusion of this section is that good fits of the excited state decay can be obtained by a reversible radical pair model coupled to two subsequent relaxed radical pair states.
Conclusion	If the energy levels of the three radical pairs do not change as a result of the addition of CP47, then the energy transfer between CP47 and RC does not limit the overall kinetics.
Conclusion	The slowing down of the trapping kinetics upon the addition of CP47 is explained by a shift of the excited state distribution towards CP47.
Conclusion	The analysis of transient difference absorption and time-resolved emission data revealed a multiexponential decay of the excited states in the PS II RC.
Result	Typical trapping lifetimes in the RC are 2–3, 30–40 and 350–450 ps.
Background	Multiexponential trapping in the PS II RC was also observed in earlier experiments, as well as in CP47–RC (this work) and PS II core preparations.47
Background	Initially it was thought that the wide spread of trapping times is due to sample heterogeneity and/or to a wide distribution of the free energy difference of radical pair formation.
Background	Later it was suggested that radical pair formation induces a reorganization of the protein surroundings, which in turn reduces the energy level of the radical pair.23
Background	Also secundary electron transfer reactions, e.g., from PD1 to ChlD1+, may reduce the free energy of the radical pair.
Background	Our data are consistent with the following model.
Result	Excitation energy rapidly equilibrates within the six central chlorines of RC.
Result	Some or most equilibration takes place in about 100 fs, the remainder within a few ps at most.
Result	Then initial charge separation takes place in 2–3 ps.
Result	The red shifted position of the 2–3 ps component in the transient absorption (400, 695 and 543 nm excitation) and time-resolved emission (400 and 680 nm excitation) indicates that initial charge separation starts from a red exciton state in the RC.
Method	This was already suggested in the literature based on the low temperature photon echo,13 site-directed mutagenesis,14 Stark spectroscopy15 and pump–probe measurements.48
Conclusion	It is most likely that the first radical pair consists of the ChlD1+PheoD1− pair.13–15
Result	The first charge separation generates a radical pair state of about equal energy as that of the singlet excited state of the primary electron donor.
Conclusion	This makes recombination back to excited state highly possible.
Result	After charge recombination the excitation is equilibrated over all central chlorines in RC.
Result	This defines the blue shift (relatively to the 2–3 ps DAS) of the 30–40 ps component in fluorescence which is observed at 400, 665 and 680 nm excitation.
Result	The process of energy transfer from the peripheral Chls also contributes to this phase.
Result	It is possible that the 30–40 ps trapping phase originates from electron transfer from PD1 to ChlD1+, thus creating the PD1+PheoD1− radical pair.
Conclusion	If this interpretation is correct, then this process would be considerably slower than in the purple bacterial RC, where this process takes place in about 3 ps.
Conclusion	It would also mean that the 3 ps phases in the RCs of PS II and purple bacteria have different origins.
Conclusion	The third trapping lifetime on the 350–450 ps time scale can be interpreted by a lowering of the energy level of PD1+PheoD1− radical pair due to conformational changes of the protein surroundings.
Conclusion	The fact that this phase, rather prominent in the time-resolved emission experiments, gives rise to only very minor absorbance changes is consistent with this idea.
Background	The data of the X-ray structures2–4 indicate that the chlorophylls of CP47 are located at considerable distances from the chlorophylls and pheophytins of the RC.
Background	The shortest distance is 21.3 Å, between Chl43 of CP47 and PheoD2 of the PS II RC.
Background	This will lead to slow energy transfer between CP47 and RC, also because the excitation energy will be rapidly delocalized over the 16 Chls of CP47 and the six central Chls and Pheos of the PS II RC.
Problem	Thus, one should expect to observe this component as a relatively slow phase in the time-resolved spectroscopy data.
Result	We indeed observed slower lifetimes for the excited states decays in CP47–RC.
Conclusion	However, the data analysis based on the kinetic model leads to the conclusion that the intrinsic time for energy transfer from CP47 to RC does not limit the trapping kinetics.
Result	According to this analysis, the upper limit for this transfer is about 20 ps.
Method	This analysis was based on the assumption that the energy levels and rate constants between the various compartments was identical for processes within the RC in the PS II RC and CP47–RC preparations.
Method	In other words, charge separation is assumed to occur in identical ways in both preparations.
Method	While there is no solid experimental evidence that would argue in favour or against this assumption, it does reflect the most simple model for charge separation in PS II.
Method	An upper limit of about 20 ps was defined for the intrinsic time constant for energy transfer from CP47 to the RC.
Background	Only a few ‘linker’ chlorophylls from CP47 are directly coupled with the RC chlorines via energy transfer.
Method	To obtain the time constant of energy transfer between the coupled pigments the value 20 ps must be corrected for the number of Chls in CP47 and the number of ‘linker’ chlorophylls, which gives 2.6 ps assuming 16 Chls in CP47, two of which are ‘linker’ Chls.
Result	This value is of the order of the general equilibration time in the CP47 antenna.
Conclusion	It may become slightly longer if the excited states of the ‘linker’ chlorophylls are populated to a larger extent than expected from a random distribution, for instance because they are red-shifted or are involved in exciton states that delocalize the main exciton state predominantly on these chlorophylls (which would also be caused by their relatively low site energies).
Background	According to the X-ray structures, the linker chlorophylls are ideally oriented for energy transfer to PheoD2,30 supporting our conclusion about the fast rate of this process.
Method	We calculated the difference between energy transfer rates from the nearest linker chl of CP47 (Chl43) to PheoD2, and from ChlZD2 to PheoD2, based on the Förster formula.
Result	The shorter distance and the more favorable orientation of the first pair of molecules suggests a ten times faster energy transfer rate from Chl43 to PheoD2, in agreement with the parameters of our model.
Background	We note, however, that local differences in refractive index can have a significant influence on these rates.49,50
Conclusion	Because the charge separation in the RC is highly reversible and the rate of excitation equilibration between CP47 and the RC is fast, the excited states of the CP47 antenna remain populated all the time the excitation occurs in the CP47–RC complex.
Background	The spectral properties of the CP47 antenna are also very important.
Result	The fact that the average energy level of CP47 is lower than that of the RC helps to distribute the excited states towards the core antenna.
Result	We have found that the intrinsic rate constant of energy transfer is of the same order as the initial rate of charge separation.
Conclusion	These results indicate that energy transfer and trapping in CP47–RC is not transfer-to-the-trap limited, as it is in the purple bacterial RC-LH1 complex.51
Conclusion	However, it is also not really trap-limited, because some of the energy transfer processes occur on the same timescale, or are even slower than that of the primary charge separation reaction.
Background	A unique property of Photosystem II is that it has a high oxidation potential.
Background	It would be reasonable to assume that to prevent oxidation of the antenna components and leaking away of the positive charge from the site of water oxidation, these components must be located at long distances from the RC.
Background	The available structural data have shown that the CP47 chlorophylls are indeed located at distances of 21 Å or more.
Conclusion	Our analysis, however, has shown that this does not prevent a fast excitation energy transfer between CP47 and RC, highlighting the light-harvesting function of CP47.
Result	It is also clear that CP47 does not play a direct role in the stabilization of the charge separation.
Result	Crucial roles in the charge stabilization are currently explained by electron transfer, in the 20–30 ps time range, from PD1 to ChlD1+ and by conformational changes, in about 300 ps, of the charged protein surroundings.
Background	At high light intensities, the rate of photosynthetic electron transport reaches a maximum.
Background	This leads to changes in the PS II antenna system which ultimately give rise to a strongly increased decay of excited states via internal conversion into heat by a process known as non-photochemical quenching52 and by photodestruction of the D1 protein of the PS II RC.53
Conclusion	Our results indicate that CP47 reduces the apparent rate constant of charge separation and acts as a temporary excitation storage system.
Conclusion	The excited levels of CP47 gradually contribute to the ingrowth of radical pair populations.
Problem	It is likely that the other PS II antenna complexes play similar roles.
Conclusion	So, the fast rate constant of energy transfer between CP47 and RC helps to keep the excitation energy in the antenna system and the possibility to regulate the light need for PS II by means of the antenna.
Conclusion	This means that the antenna has a dual function: (1) it increases the absorption cross-section, i.e. it increases the amount of collected light; and (2) it reduces the oversaturation of energy transfer chain.
Conclusion	We remark that these properties are not unique for PS II.
Background	It was shown recently that the additional IsiA antenna attached to iron-stressed cyanobacterial PS I performs similar functions: an increase of the light-harvesting capacity of PS I,54,55 and at the same time photoprotection for PS II56.

